1:An introduction to AFROTC and the United States Air Force (USAF); customs and courtesies, officer opportunities, core values, and communications skills. 
2:An introduction to the United States Air Force organization and mission. 
3:Seminar in topics related to the United States Air Force. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
4:Readings and research of topics regarding the United States Air Force. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
5:Examines general aspects of air and space power through a historical perspective from the first balloons and dirigibles to the Cold War. 
6:Examines general aspects of air and space power through a historical perspective from post-Cold War military operations through the Global War on Terror. 
7:Examines air power theory and practice from 1914 to the present. Focuses on the application of air power as an instrument of war and the effectiveness of that application. 
8:Part one of a two-part course concerning contemporary leadership and management. Emphasizes modern-day experiences, successes, and failures, with various theories on motivating people, organizing, and managing. Lectures and discussion focus on application of various principles as an Air Force officer. Class participation, comprehension, and oral communication skills are stressed. 
9:A continuation of AERO 301. Class participation, comprehension, and written communication skills will be stressed. 
10:Provides leadership training in a military environment. Professional development is achieved through academics, physical fitness, marksmanship, and leadership exercises. Course culminates in a simulated expeditionary deployment to a combat zone. 
11:Summer field training required. Examines issues relevant to new Air Force officers with an emphasis on national security issues and Department of Defense and U.S. Air Force organizational structures and function. 
12:Survey and analysis of the major issues affecting officers in the Air Force. Lectures and discussions center on gaining insight into the military officer, military law, ethics, law of armed conflict, and preparing for active duty as a second lieutenant. Class participation, comprehension, written and oral communication skills are stressed. 
13:A study of national defense policy as affected by the constitutional and political setting, as well as its relation to foreign policy. Some attention to strategic doctrine. students lacking the prerequisite. 
14:Required for all AFROTC cadets. This laboratory is conducted by the cadet corps and involves career opportunities in the USAF, life and work of the USAF junior officer, and military ceremonies. 
15:Blackness and whiteness as racial categories have existed in the United States from the earliest colonial times, but their meanings have shifted and continue to shift. Over the semester we will attempt to define and redefine blackness in the United States. 
16:This course is designed to investigate how race has been represented in cinema historically with a emphasis on representations of race when blackness is masqueraded. 
17:An introduction to Africa's modern history and politics with a special focus on types of leadership involved in governmental institutions. 
18:Special Topics Course: content will vary each semester Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
19:Introduction to the study of the African continent, its peoples, history, and contemporary problems of development in a globalized world, including a survey of the African past, society and culture, and contemporary political, economic, and social issues. 
20:The course tracks the contours of life, societies, cultures, and history in the Atlantic African Diaspora from origins in Atlantic Africa to the present. Emphasis on forces that have created African American and African Diaspora peoples in North America, South America, and the Caribbean. 
21:A survey of the historical development of the black church in America, beginning during the antebellum period and continuing to the present day. 
22:Introduction to the study of gender and sexuality in African societies. Theoretical questions relating to the cross-cultural study of gender will be a primary focus. Topics include historical perspectives on the study of kinship and family in Africa and the impact of colonialism and other forms of social change. 
23:An introduction to African literature. In addition to substantive themes, we will identify major stylistic characteristics of modern African literature with particular attention to the ways in which African language, literature, and traditional values have affected modern writing. 
24:This course introduces students to the rich, complex, and diverse pictorial, oral, and written productions by West African artists, novelists, poets, and singers, through readings, music, and films. It stimulates students' critical thinking skills as they reflect on aspects of West African societies and cultures. 
25:The relationship between religion and society in sub-Saharan Africa is explored through ethnographic and historical readings. The Nilotic, Bantu, and West African religious traditions are examined in detail. 
26:Introduction to the plastic arts of sub-Saharan Africa through study of their relationship to the human values, institutions, and modes of aesthetic expression of select traditional and modern African societies. 
27:A seminar that critically examines the historical and theoretical basis of the state's centrality in economic development in African countries. Relevant case studies drawn from sub-Saharan Africa. 
28:By examining ethnographic texts, students will learn about topics in African studies such as systems of thought, aesthetics, the economy, politics, social organization, identity, and the politics of representation. 
29:Special emphasis on postemancipation developments. 
30:An examination of the individual and collective experiences of black women in America from slavery to the present and the evolution of feminist consciousness. 
31:An introduction to African American art and artists and their social contexts from early slavery. 
32:A survey of African American political development from emancipation to the present. The course examines the dynamics of minority group politics with African Americans as the primary unit of analysis. Students consider African American politics in domestic and global contexts and issues of local, regional, national, and international relevance. 
33:This course will analyze the role of the African American in motion pictures, explore the development of stereotypical portrayals, and investigate the efforts of African American actors and actresses to overcome these portrayals. 
34:Blacks in the West is a survey course that examines the origins, migration, and development of African descended peoples in the United States west of the Mississippi River. 
35:This course is an overview of the black experience in North Carolina with special emphasis on Chapel Hill and Wilmington. 
36:This course looks at blacks in the British world to 1833, with particular attention on the 13 colonies and the lands that would eventually form the Dominion of Canada. 
37:This course explores contemporary economic, political, and social factors influencing the health and welfare of African peoples. Emphasis is placed on understanding the cultural perspectives that shape non-Western experiences of health, disease, and notions of spiritual and physical well- being. Readings draw from the fields of anthropology, history, and public health. 
38:The course examines the contemporary relationship between China and Africa. This includes China and Africa's history; China's economic, trade, strategic, and foreign policy towards Africa; as well as the relationship between China and the Africans who live and work there. 
39:Examines the 21st-century global competition for African resources and compares it to the 19th-century "scramble for Africa." Major actors include the European Union, the United States, and China. 
40:This course surveys contemporary forms of political conflict and protest in Africa. The nature, causes, and consequences of these conflicts will be examined. 
41:A course on policy making in African states concerning development and/or other issues. 
42:Explores the role that the cultural realm plays in legitimizing, reproducing, resisting, and uncovering dominant structures of power in Africa. 
43:Examines the production, circulation, and consumption of masks in both African and non-African contexts. Expands, nuances, and sometimes undoes our notions of mask, masquerade, and masking. 
44:This course traces the evolution of black nationalism, both as an idea and a movement, from the era of the American Revolution to its current Afrocentric expressions. 
45:An examination of the struggle by black Americans for social justice since World War II and of the systemic responses. 
46:This course examines the influence of African American expressive culture, particularly popular music, on American mainstream culture. 
47:The majority of people of African descent in this hemisphere live in Latin America. This course will explore various aspects of the black experience in Latin America. 
48:This course will look at the experiences of black Caribbean immigrants in the United States and the activities in which they participate, as well as their shifting senses of their identities. 
49:An interdisciplinary survey of African-descendant communities and the development and expression of African/black identities in the context of competing definitions of diaspora. 
50:Explores the experiences of Africans in European colonies in locations such as colonial Mexico, Brazil, the Caribbean, and mainland North America. Lecture and discussion format. The major themes of inquiry include labor, law, gender, culture, and resistance, exploring differing experiences based on gender, location, and religion. 
51:Subject matter will vary by instructor. Course description available from department office. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
52:Students work internships and develop, in conjunction with a faculty supervisor, an academic project relating to their internship experience. Permission of the director of undergraduate studies required. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
53:An introduction to African music new and old, focusing on the continent's distinctive techniques and concepts, and on its musical interactions with the rest of the world. The politics of music making in various historical settings will be explored. Prior musical experience is helpful, but not required. 
54:Focus on the historical development of African American art from the Harlem Renaissance of early 20th century through the Black Arts Movement and Feminist Art Movement 1960s and early 1970s. 
55:This course will allow students to research, analyze, and engage pressing political, economic, and social issues confronting black people in North America and elsewhere in the diaspora. 
56:The course provides an examination of the ways that the past plays out in the present. Specifically this course examines memorials, monuments, and museums that remember and reinvent slavery and race in the United States and throughout the rest of the Diaspora. 
57:Exploration of the relationship between race and public policy in the U.S. Primary focus on African Americans, but other racial groups also studied. Key areas include reproductive justice, health care, employment, labor, welfare, education, housing, environmental justice, policing, criminalization, foreign policy, immigration, and war. 
58:Taking an issue of current or historic importance to African American communities, students conduct archival research and collect and/or analyze oral histories and work to create a documentary play that will be publicly performed. 
59:This course treats the structural properties of African American English. Students will learn to use sentence data to test hypotheses about language structure by investigating the syntax and semantics of African American English. 
60:Examines the socio-political dimensions of African diaspora art and culture with a focus on African Americans in the 20th century. 
61:This course explores the intersection of law and societal developments drawing from the disciplines of history, political science, anthropology, feminist legal studies, and constitutional law. The themes of the course will vary depending on the training, research interests, and geographical concentration of the faculty teaching the course. 
62:Examines the emergence and impact of hip-hop music and culture and its broad influence in mainstream culture, as a global phenomenon and as a vehicle embodying formative ideas of its constituent communities. 
63:Will examine the way that the process of emancipation unfolded in Haiti, Jamaica, and Cuba, with major emphasis on emancipation in the United States. 
64:Examines participatory development theory and practice in Africa and the United States in the context of other intervention strategies and with special attention to culture and gender. 
65:This course explores the history and contemporary politics of HIV/AIDS in African communities and across the Diaspora. The differing trajectories of the epidemic on the continent, in the West, and in the Caribbean and Latin America will be explored. 
66:Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Subject matter will vary with each instructor. Each course will concern itself with a study in depth of some problem in African, African American, or diaspora studies. 
67:Permission of the director of undergraduate studies. Independent study projects defined by student and faculty advisor. Majors only. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
68:An in-depth examination of trends and theories on democratic governance since the end of the Cold War, together with the implications of these trends and theories for Africa. 
69:This course explores forms of filmic and photographic representation of and by Africans. An introduction to key concepts in social theory and their application to the field of media studies and ethnography is a primary focus. 
70:This course explores major conceptual debates in the field of human rights. Further, it examines human rights practices and struggles in selected countries in Africa. 
71:An exploration of musical articulations of African diasporic identity focusing on aesthetics, social fields of production, and the historical development of the diaspora concept around music. 
72:Examines modern and contemporary African art (1940s to the present) for Africans on the continent and abroad. Examines tradition, cultural heritage, colonialism, postcolonialism, local versus global, nationalism, gender, identity, diaspora. instructor for students lacking the prerequisite. 
73:Seminar focuses on history, politics, and economic development challenges of a single region or major country of the African continent, with emphasis on contemporary issues. Region, country, and topics vary by semester and instructor. 
74:This course provides an overview of Senegalese culture through movies, literary works, and scholarly books and articles. The course examines the geography, population, ethnic composition, thoughts and religious beliefs, arts and music, polygamy, status of women, and the impact of the tariqas or Sufi orders on people's daily lives. 
75:This course will equip students to analyze critically cutting-edge issues concerning Africa today through readings, lectures, and research. For junior/senior majors and students with an interest in Africa. 
76:This course is an introduction to the languages of Africa. No linguistics background is required. Topics include classification, characteristic linguistic features of African languages, and their role in their respective societies. 
77:An examination of the principal intellectual trends in black life during the 19th and 20th centuries as well as the life and work of the intelligentsia. 
78:Examines the ideas of the scholar W. E. B. DuBois, theologian Howard Thurman, and political theorist Malcolm X. Major issues will be conceptualized from the distinct perspectives represented by those leaders. 
79:Explores performance traditions in African American music, tracing development from African song through reels, blues, gospel, and contemporary vernacular expression. Focuses on continuity, creativity, and change within African American aesthetics. 
80:This course interrogates the diverse representations that black women personified on screen, investigates intersections between their off-screen lives and on-screen images, and explores what and how they contributed to the cinema industry. This course is a theoretical, critical, and historical examination of the black woman's cinematic experience. 
81:This course explores outstanding themes of the Harlem Renaissance through readings, prints and photographs, lectures, and class discussion. 
82:Examines the divide between literacy- and orality-based modes of self- expression and cultural production, and the effects of this fault line on the African American struggle for inclusion and self-definition in the United States. 
83:Examines race, culture, and politics in Brazil from historical and contemporary perspectives. Focuses on dynamics of race, gender, class, and nation in shaping Brazilian social relations. 
84:This course explores theoretical issues concerning historical, cultural, socio-political, and intellectual formations, connections, and movements between Africa and its Atlantic diaspora. 
85:Restricted to sophomores, juniors, and seniors. Examines the ways African art appears in United States popular culture (advertisements, magazines, toys, films, art) to generate meanings about Africa. Addresses intersecting issues of nationalism, multiculturalism, imperialism, nostalgia, race. 
86:In this seminar students will examine primary documents of engaged scholarship written by Africans and people of African descent in the Americas, Europe, and elsewhere in the African Diaspora. for students lacking the prerequisites. 
87:This course examines how questions of democracy and human rights have been conceptualized in African Diaspora communities in the Americas and Europe. 
88:This course examines the cultural and political formation of the African Diaspora in the Americas and Europe from the 15th century to the present. Course materials focus on the development of communities in Western Europe, the Caribbean, Central America, and South America. 
89:This course examines the evolution, transformation, and sociopolitical implications of the concept of race, with particular emphasis on blackness and whiteness in the United States. 
90:Permission of the department. Beginning of mentored research on an honors thesis. Required of all candidates for graduation with honors in African, African American, and Diaspora studies. 
91:Permission of the department. Completion of an honors thesis under the direction of a member of the faculty. Required of all candidates for graduation with honors in African, African American, and Diaspora studies. 
92:The course introduces the essential elements of the Chichewa language. Emphasis is on speaking and writing grammatically acceptable Chichewa and on aspects of central African culture. 
93:Emphasis is on speaking and writing grammatically acceptable Chichewa to a proficiency level that will enable the student to live among the Chichewa-speaking people of central southern Africa. 
94:Continued instruction in Chichewa following the materials introduced in CHWA 401 and 402. 
95:Introduces the essential elements of Lingala structure and vocabulary and aspects of African cultures. Aural comprehension, reading, speaking, and writing are stressed. 
96:Continues the introduction of the essential elements of Lingala structure and vocabulary and aspects of African cultures. Aural comprehension, reading, speaking, and writing are stressed. 
97:This courses increases language learning ability, communicative proficiency, and proficiency in the cultures of the Lingala-speaking people. 
98:This course reinforces language learning ability, communicative proficiency in the culture of the Lingala-speaking people through gradual exposure to more challenging tasks, with emphasis on poetry and prose reading, and creative writing. 
99:The 112 course covers the material in the SWAH 401 and 402 sequence in a single semester. Students may not receive credit for both SWAH 401 and SWAH 402 or SWAH 112 . 
100:The course covers the material in the SWAH 403 and 404 sequence in a single semester. Students may not receive credit for both SWAH 403 and SWAH 404 or SWAH 234 . 
101:Introduces the essential elements of Kiswahili structure and vocabulary and aspects of African cultures. Aural comprehension, reading, speaking, and writing are stressed. Students may not receive credit for both SWAH 401 and SWAH 402 or SWAH 112 . 
102:Continues the introduction of essential elements of Kiswahili structure and vocabulary and aspects of African cultures. Aural comprehension, reading, speaking, and writing are stressed. Students may not receive credit for both SWAH 401 and SWAH 402 or SWAH 112 . 
103:Third-semester Kiswahili, designed to increase reading and writing skills. Introduction of literature. Aural comprehension and speaking skills stressed. Students may not receive credit for both SWAH 403 and SWAH 404 or SWAH 234 . 
104:Fourth-semester Kiswahili, designed to increase reading and writing skills. Introduction of more compound structures. Emphasis on literature, including drama, prose and poetry, and creative writing. Aural comprehension and speaking skills stressed. Students may not receive credit for both SWAH 403 and SWAH 404 or SWAH 234 . 
105:This course is offered to students who have completed SWAH 404. It is taught in Swahili and aims at enabling students with grammatical and communicative competence. 
106:This course reinforces and expands the grammatical, cultural, and communicative competence achieved in SWAH 405. students lacking the prerequisite. 
107:Swahili recitation offered in conjunction with selected content courses. Weekly discussion and readings in Swahili relating to attached content courses. students lacking the prerequisite. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 8 total credits. 8 total completions. 
108:This course enables students who have no previous experience in Wolof to develop speaking, listening and understanding, writing, and reading skills in Wolof. Students will also be exposed to Wolof culture. 
109:This course is for students who have already acquired the basics of Wolof to reinforce their ability to learn speaking, listening and understanding, writing, and reading Wolof. Evidence of basic knowledge of Wolof is required. 
110:This course is intended for learners who have already acquired Wolof proficiency in WOLO 401 and 402. It increases communicative proficiency and language learning ability as well as proficiency in cultures of the Wolof people. 
111:This course reinforces students' communicative and cultural skills via gradual exposure to increasingly challenging tasks. Reading poetry and prose, and introduction to creative writing will be stressed. students lacking the prerequisite. 
112:Analyze American journeys and destinations, focusing on how resources, technology, transportation, and cultural influences have transformed the navigation and documentation of America. Multimedia documentation of personal journey required. 
113:This course uses changes in the American family over the past century as a way of understanding larger processes of social change. 
114:This course uses changes in the American family over the past century as a way of understanding larger processes of social change. 
115:This course uses archaeological and historical scholarship to consider the histories of the Southern Indians from the Mississippian period to the end of the 18th century. 
116:This course explores birth and death as essential human rites of passage that are invested with significance by changing and diverse American historical, cultural, ethnic, and ethical contexts. 
117:This course explores birth and death as essential human rites of passage that are invested with significance by changing and diverse American historical, cultural, ethnic, and ethical contexts. 
118:This course examines the contested and changing role of memory in constructing historical meaning, creating political ideologies, and imagining cultural communities. 
119:This course explores barriers to access to American colleges and universities. Success in application, admission, matriculation, and graduation requires ability and experience and is also a function of other advantages. 
120:This course examines the history of radical social thought in American history, focusing in particular on examples from "leftist" and "collectivist" traditions, and emphasizes the many forms radicalism has taken by exploring different radical thinkers' dissenting critiques of dominant political, economic and social arrangements. 
121:This research seminar provides a grounding in American Indian law, history, and literature. Students will conduct research for presentation on Wikipedia. 
122:Designed to help prepare students for future study abroad opportunities and travel, service, and work in a global environment, the seminar focuses on critical differences, including transportation and other forms of infrastructure, that impact navigating places, people, and information. Individual competitive global travel proposals will be developed and presented. 
123:Special topics course. Content will vary each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
124:Special topics course. Content will vary each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
125:An interdisciplinary introduction to Native American history and studies. The course uses history, literature, art, and cultural studies to study the Native American experience. 
126:Introduction to food studies covering a variety of topics including how food was consumed over history, land use and aquaculture, food in the arts, food and culture in the American South, food politics, and nutrition science. 
127:A study of interdisciplinary methods and the concept of American Studies with an emphasis on the historical context for literary texts. 
128:A study of interdisciplinary methods and the concept of American studies with an emphasis on historical and cultural analysis. 
129:Introduces students to the disciplines comprising American Indian studies and teaches them how to integrate disciplines for a more complete understanding of the experiences of American Indian peoples. 
130:An examination of both the mythical and real American South and its diverse peoples through the study of the region's archaeological, geographical, and environmental history integrated with the study of the region's sociology and its economic, political, intellectual, and religious history. 
131:An examination of Southern cultural identity, literary imagination, and sense of place with an emphasis on the fiction, folklore, foodways, art, architecture, music, and material culture of the American South. 
132:This course is an introduction to "animal studies," through animal rights, animal welfare, food studies, and the human/animal distinction in philosophical inquiry. We will read work from dog and horse trainers, and explore the history of the American racetrack. This course builds a moral and ethical reasoning skill set. 
133:This course explores the historical, sociocultural, and legal significance of 20th- and 21st-century comedy in the United States. We will consider comedy as public voice; examine how humor constructs and disrupts American identities; and discuss the ethics of the creative process, performance, and reception. 
134:Covers the histories of American Indians east of the Mississippi River and before 1840. The approach is ethnohistorical. 
135:Deals with the histories of Native Americans living west of the Mississippi River. It begins in the pre-Columbian past and extends to the end of the 19th century. 
136:This course introduces students to a tribally specific body of knowledge. The tribal focus of the course and the instructor change from term to term. 
137:This course introduces students to a tribally specific body of knowledge. The tribal focus of the course and the instructor change from term to term. 
138:This course deals with the political, economic, social, and cultural issues important to 20th-century Native Americans as they attempt to preserve tribalism in the modern world. 
139:Offers a historically, politically, and culturally contextualized examination of Native America through oral, written, and visual storytelling. Covering a wide range of genres, including oral narratives, novels, and visual arts, this introductory course showcases the fluidity of Indigenous artistic forms and their continuing centrality in Native America. 
140:Course examines the history and culture of Jewish women in America from their arrival in New Amsterdam in 1654 to the present and explores how gender shaped this journey. 
141:This course examines topics in the intellectual and cultural history of the United States in the mid-20th century, including issues of race thinking, mass culture, and gender ideologies. 
142:We remember the 1950s as a period of relative tranquility, happiness, optimism, and contentment. This course will consider a handful of countertexts: voices from literature, politics, and mass culture of the 1950s that for one or another reason found life in the postwar world repressive, empty, frightening, or insane and predicted the social and cultural revolutions that marked the decade that followed. 
143:Investigates the significance of Herman Melville as a representative 19th- century American author. Includes issues of biography, historical context, changing reception, cultural iconography, and the politics of the literary marketplace. 
144:Examines how representations of captivity and bondage in American expression worked to construct and transform communal categories of religion, race, class, gender, and nation. 
145:Explores the significance of tobacco from Native American ceremony to the Southern economy by focusing on changing attitudes toward land use, leisure, social style, public health, litigation, and global capitalism. 
146:Emphasizing cultural stratification, political dissent and commercialization in American youth and popular movements, this course will map the evolving political and cultural landscape of mid-20th- century America through the lens of the Folk Revival, from its origins in various regionalist, nativist, and socialist traditions of the 1920s to its alliance with the civil rights and anti-war movements of the 1960s. 
147:Examines the relationship between cinema and culture in America with a focus on the ways cinema has been experienced in American communities since 1896. 
148:Interdisciplinary examination of the married condition from colonial times to the present. Themes include courtship and romance, marital power and the egalitarian ideal, challenges to monogamy. 
149:Covers the definition and documentation of communities within North Carolina through research, study, and field work of communities. Each student produces a documentary on a specific community. 
150:Covers the definition and documentation of communities within North Carolina through research, study, and field work of communities. Each student produces a documentary on a specific community. 
151:This course will take students on a journey through some of the key moments in "American" food studies and its beginnings across a range of disciplinary homes: the study of nutrition and food security; the study of food systems and the vocabularies that subtend them. 
152:Considers the meanings and implications of globalization especially in relation to identity, nationhood, and America's place in the world. 
153:Considers the meanings and implications of globalization especially in relation to identity, nationhood, and America's place in the world. 
154:Examines themes in the history and design of the most intimate and most public of objects - the house. Residences, from tract house mansions to apartment buildings, are powerful statements about how we see our society and how circumstances and choice lead us to house ourselves. Previously numbered AMST 466. 
155:This course investigates how we make and signify meaning through images, ranging from art to advertising to graffiti, and provides the critical tools to understand the visual worlds we inhabit. 
156:Focus on systemic and individual factors affecting access to work including gender, race, age, disability, transportation, international competition, technological progress, change in labor markets, educational institutions, and public policy. 
157:Introduces students to how legal education is conducted in the United States by mimicking the "1L" experience, or first year in law school. It is broken into units that represent classes every law school teaches in the first year: contracts, property, torts, criminal law, civil procedure, and constitutional law. 
158:Special topics in American studies. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
159:An interdisciplinary seminar in American studies addressing ethical issues in the United States. 
160:Topics in American history in American studies. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
161:Topics in American history from the perspective of American studies. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
162:Topics in arts and literature from the perspective of American studies. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
163:An interdisciplinary approach to the history of adoption and related practices in the United States, employing the provisions society has made for the welfare of children deemed to be orphans as a powerful lens into changing values and attitudes toward childhood, race, class, gender, reproduction, parenthood, and family. 
164:This course focuses on the contemporary art and social change movement. We will learn how to use site-specific and performative art interventions to make invisible borders, boundaries, and other issues visible and innovatively to create engaged and sustained dialogue. 
165:An interdisciplinary seminar that considers the changing understandings of what it meant to be American up through the United States Civil War. 
166:An interdisciplinary seminar that considers the changing understandings of what it meant to be American up through the United States Civil War. 
167:An interdisciplinary seminar that investigates the changing meanings of being American since the United States Civil War. 
168:An interdisciplinary seminar that investigates the changing meanings of being American since the United States Civil War. 
169:This course is about Hollywood's portrayal of Indians in film, how Indian films have depicted Native American history, and why the filmic representation of Indians has changed over time. 
170:This course seeks to understand how American Indian individuals and communities survived a century that began with predictions of their disappearance. To answer that question, we take a broad view of politics and activism, exploring everything from the radical protest to art and everyday forms of resistance. 
171:This course examines this art form's development by indigenous writers as a mode of storytelling that explores the continuing effects of settler colonialism upon indigenous peoples and foregrounds indigenous notions of land, culture, and community. 
172:An interdisciplinary exploration of Native America during the "long 1960s" (1954-1973), this course focuses on how American Indian experiences intersected with and diverged from those of non-native groups via topics such as the youth movement, women's rights, nationalism, civil rights, radical protest, and creative expression. 
173:Analyzes material culture created by Native artists throughout the United States and portions of Canada. Examines the role of art and artists and how material culture is studied and displayed. Students study objects, texts, and images, exploring mediums such as painting, sculpture, basket making, beadwork, and photography. 
174:An introduction to the interdisciplinary scholarly approaches to the physical, social, economic, and cultural developments of downtowns. Students will conduct and share original research. 
175:An introduction to the interdisciplinary scholarly approaches to the physical, social, economic, and cultural developments of downtowns. Students will conduct and share original research. 
176:This course will investigate, through literature, film, and song, the encounter of Eastern European Jews and their descendants with Anglo- Protestant America over four generations. 
177:Traces the origins of detective fiction and major developments in the history of the genre with a focus on women authors and protagonists. Examines literary texts including fiction and film, with close attention to historical and social contexts and to theoretical arguments relating to popular fiction, genre studies, and gender. 
178:This course looks at the process by which women find their "voice" as individuals, and particularly as artists and writers. Louisa May Alcott, Emily Dickinson, Mary Cassatt, Maxine Hong Kingston, and Faith Ringgold are among the figures we will discuss. 
179:An interdisciplinary seminar that explores stylistic choices and representational modes available to LGTBQ artists in the United States since 1950. We will relate shifts in cinematic and literary representations and aesthetic strategies to developments in political, social, and economic life. 
180:This course introduces the phenomena of language shift, endangerment, and revitalization in America. In both indigenous and immigrant communities, the mid-1800s initiated a widespread shift toward English. Through readings and discussions, we examine the social and historical motivations for this trend, and explore critical thinking skills for analyzing language shift. 
181:An exploration of the history, culture, and contemporary politics of food in North Carolina as a lens onto national and global food issues. 
182:This course compares the cultural and social histories of two settler societies: the United States and Australia. Focus on selected topics, including landscape, indigenous peoples, national identity, exploration. 
183:This course compares the cultural and social histories of two settler societies, the United States and Australia. Focus on selected topics, including landscape, indigenous peoples, national identity, exploration. 
184:Survey of women's time allocation patterns, labor force participation trends, earnings, occupational selection, and economic history. 
185:Students research the history of their own families as we examine the history of the family as a social institution in America. 
186:This upper-level seminar explores influential 20th-century writings on race and empire and colonialism by intellectuals from America and around the world. 
187:Seminar in American studies topics with a focus on historical inquiry from interdisciplinary angles. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
188:How the language, ideas, and cultural products of religious outsiders responded to and influenced mainstream ideas about what American religious communities could and should look like in terms of gender, race, economics, and faith-based practices. 
189:This team-taught course is for juniors and seniors and is multifaceted in its inquiry into the role of the university in American life. UNC--Chapel Hill is used as the case study. 
190:Field laboratory explores UNC--Chapel Hill campus sites and Triangle-area universities. One four-hour laboratory a week. 
191:Permission of the department. Directed reading under the supervision of a faculty member. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
192:Explores history and theory of volunteerism and service learning in America. Includes a weekly academic seminar and placement in a service learning project. 
193:We will engage such topics as race, immigration, cultural tourism, and memory to consider conceptions of the South. Students will research a subject they find compelling and write a 20- to 25-page paper. 
194:This course will move through prevalent theories in American studies to familiarize students with theoretical concepts and to ascertain both the advantages and pitfalls of theoretical landscapes. Students will become familiar with critical race (postcoloniality and settler-colonialism, for example), feminist, "queer" theories, historical materialism, political economy, postcolonialism, and bio-power. 
195:This course explores the relation of American Indian poetry and music in English to the history and culture of indigenous communities and their relation to the United States. 
196:This course will consider how real estate speculation, transportation, suburbanization, and consumerism have shaped a landscape whose many representations in art and narrative record our ongoing struggle over cultural meaning. 
197:Examines the ways in which visual works - paintings, photographs, sculpture, architecture, film, advertising, and other images - communicate the values of American culture and raise questions about American experiences. 
198:Drawing on American and international examples, this course addresses a body of art that occupies the borderlands of contemporary art, examining questions of authenticity, dysfunction, aesthetics, and identity. 
199:This course explores ethnicity in the South and focuses on the history and culture of Jewish Southerners from their arrival in the Carolinas in the 17th century to the present day. 
200:This course explores, through lecture and discussion, the experiences of everyday life from 1600 through the early 19th century, drawing on the evidence of architecture, landscape, images, and objects. 
201:Seminar will explore the unique worlds of Southern material culture and how "artifacts" from barns to biscuits provide insight about the changing social and cultural history of the American South. 
202:A reading seminar that examines multiple critical perspectives that shape the reception and interpretation of objects, with a particular emphasis on things in American life. 
203:Permission of the department and the instructor. Internship. Variable credit. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
204:Graduate or junior/senior standing. Examines American civilization by studying social and cultural history, criticism, art, architecture, music, film, popular pastimes, and amusements, among other possible topics. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
205:This course gives an introduction to the American government's law and policy concerning tribal nations and tribal peoples. We examine a number of legal and political interactions to determine how the United States has answered the "Indian problem" throughout its history and the status of tribal peoples and nations today. 
206:This course explores the history of Native interaction with the American legal system in order to understand how the law affects Native peoples and others today. Students are encouraged (but not required) to take AMST 510 before enrolling in this course. 
207:Introduces the theory, politics, and practice of historical work conducted in public venues (museums, historic sites, national parks, government agencies, archives), directed at public audiences, or addressed to public issues. 
208:Two years of college-level Spanish or the equivalent strongly recommended. Multidisciplinary examination of texts and other media of the Americas, in English and Spanish, from a variety of genres. 
209:Directed independent research leading to the preparation of an honors thesis and an oral examination on the thesis. Required of candidates for graduation with honors in American studies who enroll in the class once permission to pursue honors is granted. 
210:Directed independent research leading to the preparation of an honors thesis and an oral examination on the thesis. Required of candidates for graduation with honors in American studies who enroll in the class once permission to pursue honors is granted. 
211:Provides an introduction to speaking, listening, reading, and writing in the Cherokee language. This course is part of an ongoing effort to revitalize Cherokee--an endangered language indigenous to North Carolina. Students will acquire basic conversational Cherokee and learn to read and write the Sequoyah syllabary. 
212:Permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisite. This course expands on skills from CHER 101. We will begin reading longer texts in the Cherokee syllabary and learn to produce more complex narrative structures. Students will move toward discussing others around them, with an eye toward discussing the general world. 
213:Permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisite. This course reviews and deepens grammatical knowledge from CHER 101 and 102. We will increase extemporaneous speaking and produce new written texts in the Cherokee syllabary. Students will discuss the world around them in addition to the self and others. 
214:Permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisite. This course completes the study of basic Cherokee grammar. We will polish conversational fluency and proficiency, read and create new texts in the Cherokee syllabary. Students will discuss current events and offer opinions. 
215:What are the roots of hip-hop's masterful rhymes and tongue-tripping flow? This seminar explores hip-hop's poetic prehistory, looking to the rhyming and oral poetics that have long defined African American experience. In so doing, we'll uncover hidden histories of everyday eloquence and explore spoken/sung poetry's role in marking cultural identity. 
216:What are the roots of hip-hop's masterful rhymes and tongue-tripping flow? This seminar explores hip-hop's poetic prehistory, looking to the rhyming and oral poetics that have long defined African American experience. In so doing, we'll uncover hidden histories of everyday eloquence and explore spoken/sung poetry's role in marking cultural identity. 
217:Special topics course. Content will vary each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
218:Theories and examples of how Caribbean people live, act, and see themselves within various cultural, social, economic, and political contexts across time. Attention to North American views of the Caribbean. 
219:An introduction to the study of creativity and aesthetic expression in everyday life, considering both traditional genres and contemporary innovations in the material, verbal, and musical arts. 
220:Broad survey of contemporary American Indian societies and cultures in the United States. Explores socio-cultural and historical diversity of tribes through film, autobiography, literature, current issues, guest speakers, archaeology, and history. 
221:A study of fairy tales as historical artifacts that reveal the concerns of their times and places, as narrative structures capable of remarkable transformation, and as artistic performances drawing upon the expressive resources of multiple media, intended to challenge conventional presuppositions about the genre. 
222:Permission of the instructor. Starting with the late 19th-century evolutionists, this course discusses, intensively, major anthropological theories of magico-religious thought and practice, then offers an approach of its own. 
223:This cross-cultural study of art focuses on the forms, images, and meanings of paintings, drawings, and carvings produced by the Diyin Dine'é (Navajo), the Dogon (Mali, West Africa), and the Haida, Kwagiutl, Tlingit, and Tshimshian (northwest coast of North America). 
224:A journey into hidden worlds of southern meaning, exploring the region from the experiential lens of African Americans and the South's indigenous peoples, as a way of rethinking the question, "What does it mean to be a Southerner?" Students will explore focused issues each semester through intensive, group-based field work projects. 
225:Permission of the instructor. An introduction to the diversity of African American beliefs, experiences, and expressions from the colonial era to the present. Exploration will be both historical and thematic. 
226:An exploration of the history, culture, and contemporary politics of food in North Carolina as a lens onto national and global food issues. 
227:This course explores rituals, festivals, and public cultural performances as forms of complex, collective, embodied creative expression. As sites of popular celebration, conflict resolution, identity definition, and social exchange, they provide rich texts for folkloristic study. We consider how local and global forces both sustain and challenge these forms. 
228:Religion studied anthropologically as a cultural, social, and psychological phenomenon in the works of classical and contemporary social thought. 
229:The formation and transformation of values, identities, and expressive forms in Southeast Asia in response to forms of power. Emphasis on the impact of colonialism, the nation-state, and globalization. 
230:This course explores consciousness through symbols. Symbols from religion, art, politics, and self are studied in social, psychological, historical, and ecological context to ascertain meanings in experience and behavior. 
231:A study of selected past geographies of the United States with emphasis on the significant geographic changes in population, cultural, and economic conditions through time. (GHA) 
232:Integration of data from ethnographic and archaeological research with pertinent historic information. Familiarization with a wide range of sources for ethnohistoric data and practice in obtaining and evaluating information. Pertinent theoretical concepts will be explored. 
233:This course examines cultural understandings of health, illness, and medical systems from an anthropological perspective with a special focus on Western medicine. 
234:Anthropological and historical studies of cultural constructions of bodily experience and subjectivity are reviewed, with emphasis on the genesis of the modern individual and cultural approaches to gender and sexuality. 
235:What is the relationship between distinctive features of urban environments and the expressive forms found in those settings? This course explores the impact of the urban setting on folk traditions. We examine how people transform urban spaces into places of meaning through storytelling, festival, ritual, food, art, music, and dance. 
236:What makes an object "Jewish"? This seminar examines how we think about, animate, repurpose, and display "Jewish" objects in contemporary life -- the public realm, cultural institutions, religious spaces, and the home. We consider how makers and users negotiate objects' various meanings within the domains of prayer, performance, entertainment, and exhibition. 
237:Study of cultural variation in styles of speaking applied to collection of ethnographic data. Talk as responsive social action and its role in the constitution of ethnic and gender identities. 
238:Oral storytelling may seem old-fashioned, but we tell true (or possibly true) stories every day. We will study personal narratives (about our own experiences) and legends (about improbable, intriguing events), exploring the techniques and structures that make them effective communication tools and the influence of different contexts and audiences. 
239:Seminar will explore the unique worlds of Southern material culture and how "artifacts" from barns to biscuits provide insight about the changing social and cultural history of the American South. 
240:Topics vary from semester to semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
241:Research at sites that vary. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
242:Permission of the department. Topic varies depending on the instructor. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
243:An examination of Babylonian, Canaanite, Egyptian, Hittite, and Sumerian texts from the prebiblical era, focusing on representative myths, epics, sagas, songs, proverbs, prophecies, and hymns. 
244:Systems theory used to conceptualize relationship between cultural patterns and individual minds. Functional, dysfunctional, and therapeutic processes considered. Examples from Africa, Asia, Europe, and Native America. Lectures, films, recitations. 
245:Examines the culturally and historically variable ways in which individuals constitute themselves as cis- or transgendered subjects, drawing upon extant expressive resources, modifying them, and expanding options available to others. Performance of self as the product of esthetically marked or unmarked, everyday actions. 
246:An introduction to material folk culture, exploring the meanings that people bring to traditional arts and the artful creations with which they surround themselves (e.g., architecture, clothing, altars, tools, food). 
247:Course considers how Southern writers employ folklore genres such as folk tales, sermons, and music and how such genres provide structure for literary forms like the novel and the short story. 
248:This course combines readings and field work in oral history with the study of performance as a means of interpreting and conveying oral history texts. 
249:This course combines readings and field work in oral history with the study of performance as a means of interpreting and conveying oral history texts. 
250:Explores how each of these forms of performance communicates meaning and feeling and points to possibility. Students develop performances in each mode, informed by readings in anthropology and directing theory. students lacking the prerequisite. 
251:Explores the history of music in the American South from its roots to 20th-century musical forms, revealing how music serves as a window on the region's history and culture. 
252:An issue-oriented study of Southern folklore, exploring the ways that vernacular artistic expression (from barns and barbecue to gospel and well-told tales) come to define both community and region. 
253:Explores performance traditions in African American music, tracing development from African song through reels, blues, gospel, and contemporary vernacular expression. Focuses on continuity, creativity, and change within African American aesthetics. 
254:Introduces students to the uses of interviews in historical research. Questions of ethics, interpretation, and the construction of memory will be explored, and interviewing skills will be developed through field work. 
255:Intensive study and practice of the core research methods of cultural and social anthropology. 
256:Permission of the instructor. Exercises (including field work) in learning to read the primary modes of public action in religious traditions, e.g., sermons, testimonies, rituals, and prayers. 
257:Topic varies from semester to semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
258:Permission of the instructor. For honors candidates. Ethnographic and/or library research and analysis of the gathered materials, leading to a draft of an honors thesis. 
259:Writing of an honors thesis based on independent research conducted in FOLK 691H. Open only to senior honors candidates who work under the direction of a faculty member. 
260:In this first-year seminar, students explore the use of the human skeleton to modern behavioral and biological investigations, focusing on observations that are used as evidence to prove or disprove hypotheses. 
261:This first-year seminar examines United States environmentalism and its relationship to power and privilege, consumer desire, and attachment to place. Students conduct original group research on the environmental movement. 
262:Introduction to the processes of cultural productions and the making of social diversity in large Southeast Asian cities, as they have experienced modernity and globalization during the last 30 years. 
263:Exploration of how natural selection works, how it has been used and misused for understanding human nature, health and disease, aging, social behavior, how we choose mates, and more. 
264:Exploration of how natural selection works, how it has been used and misused for understanding human nature, health and disease, aging, social behavior, how we choose mates, and more. 
265:This course uses archaeological and historical scholarship to consider the histories of the Southern Indians from the Mississippian period to the end of the 18th century. 
266:This seminar focuses on cross-cultural healing beliefs and practices and on how social, economic, political, and ethical aspects of our lives relate to health and healing 
267:Examination of the daily news as reported online by African newspapers, the BBC, etc. Readings and class discussions of ethnographic and historical background. Student projects based on following major stories 
268:Do children have special needs and rights? This seminar will answer this question. 
269:Adopting a long view of human societies, students examine responses to crises engendered by political, economic, and environmental factors. Perspectives on societal change - apocalyptic, transformational, and resilient - undergo scrutiny. 
270:Adopting a long view of human societies, students examine responses to crises engendered by political, economic, and environmental factors. Perspectives on societal change - apocalyptic, transformational, and resilient - undergo scrutiny. 
271:Using cultural case studies, the course examines how communities organize an economy to promote local well-being. Readings emphasize cross-cultural problems of status, trust, property, exchange and political authority. 
272:This course examines current topics in American Indian country today through the use of films and interactive case studies. 
273:Can we truly access, understand, and represent the lives of others? In this class, students take on these questions by taking up the practice of ethnography, a research method consisting of entering into a community, interacting with its members, observing social life, asking questions, and writing about these experiences. 
274:In the early 20th century millions of African Americans migrated to large northern cities. The Phyllis Wheatley Home for Girls was run by black women to provide social services for female migrants to Chicago starting in 1926. The course combines elements of archaeology, anthropology, and history to study their lives. 
275:In this course we explore the complex relationships between people and animals cross-culturally and through time. Taking both anthropological and archaeological perspectives we address a wide range of topics, including the origins and uses of domestic animals, the history of dogs and cats, animal symbolism, hunting, and animal rights. 
276:In this seminar we will explore international aid, with an emphasis on its medical end and the set of organizations and institutions that exist to offer assistance to people suffering from disaster, endemic poverty, and health disparities. 
277:This seminar is an introduction to the history, social construction, cultural production, and lived experience of race in the United States and Jamaica (for comparison). The seminar will utilize historical, theoretical, ethnographic, and popular culture content to explain the effects, uses, durability, and pliability of racial formations. 
278:Folk, outsider, visionary: these terms invoke artistry that unfolds outside of mainstream artistic traditions. This seminar explores these worlds of self-taught art, addressing issues of inspiration, authenticity, and cultural (mis)representation. 
279:Special topics course; content will vary each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
280:Special topics course; content will vary each semester. 
281:Fall component of a two-semester course. A seminar that explores issues of social and cultural diversity. Students must be residents of UNITAS residence hall. 
282:Spring component of a two-semester course. Students engage in service learning through APPLES and produce a final product that thoughtfully reflects on their experience. Students must be residents of UNITAS residence hall. students lacking the prerequisite. 
283:An introduction to anthropology, the science of humans, the culture- bearing animal. Topics considered: human evolution and biological variations within and between modern populations, prehistoric and historic developments of culture, cultural dynamics viewed analytically and comparatively. 
284:An introduction to anthropology, the science of humans, the culture- bearing animal. Topics considered: human evolution and biological variations within and between modern populations, prehistoric and historic developments of culture, cultural dynamics viewed analytically and comparatively. 
285:An introduction to non-Western cultures studied by anthropologists. Includes an in-depth focus on the cultural and social systems of several groups. 
286:The study of different approaches to globalization and of inequalities in power between nation-states, ethnic groups, classes, and locales experiencing globalization. Uses ethnographic materials to examine effects of transnational migrations and other processes of globalization. 
287:Introduction to cultural analysis and the anthropological point of view through analytic and interpretive readings of films, fiction, and ethnography. Emphasis on social conditions and native points of view. 
288:An introduction to archaeology through the study of towns and cities built by the ancient peoples of the Americas. The focus is on historical processes by which these centers arose. 
289:Cross-cultural survey of building and landscape architecture, including prehistoric dwellings and sacred structures such as shrines and temples. Emphasis on architecture as symbolic form and cultural meaning. 
290:Examines how human-environmental adaptations shape the economic, social, and cultural lives of hunter-gatherers, pastoralists, and agriculturalists. Approaches include optimal foraging theory, political ecology, and subsistence risk. 
291:Globalization as a cultural and economic phenomenon, emphasizing the historical development of the current world situation and the impact of increasing global interconnection on local cultural traditions. 
292:Globalization as a cultural and economic phenomenon, emphasizing the historical development of the current world situation and the impact of increasing global interconnection on local cultural traditions. 
293:Evolutionary and ecological approach to understanding the human species' past and contemporary human variation. Emphasis on evolutionary processes, biological adaptation, and biocultural interactions with diverse environments. 
294:Introduction to world prehistory and archaeological methods. Examines the development of human society from the emergence of modern human beings 100,000 years ago through the formation of ancient civilizations. 
295:An introductory course in general anthropology focusing on the development of moral consciousness. Western and non-Western patterns of thought and culture are compared and contrasted. The course has a strongly philosophical orientation. 
296:In this course we compare a variety of healing beliefs and practices so that students may gain a better understanding of their own society, culture, and medical system. 
297:Study of human evolution. Focus on the fossil record of humans and human-like ancestors. Topics include communication, aggression, dietary adaptations, locomotion, major anatomical changes, and behavioral shifts in an evolutionary framework. 
298:This course provides students with a detailed look at some of the most significant archaeological discoveries from around the world, including Neanderthals, Stonehenge, and the Egyptian pyramids. 
299:Anthropological perspectives on foodways. This course examines the biological basis of human diets as well as the historical and cultural contexts of food production, preparation, presentation, and consumption. 
300:Introduction to food studies covering a variety of topics including how food was consumed over history, land use and aquaculture, food in the arts, food and culture in the American South, food politics, and nutrition science. 
301:Examines selected topics from an anthropological perspective. Course description is available from the departmental office. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 8 total credits. 2 total completions. 
302:Comparative study of the cultural and biological diversity of peoples of Siberia from prehistoric through contemporary times. Course topics include the biological diversity, culture, behavior, and history of Siberian populations. 
303:The course examines ethnographic, theoretical, practical, and policy approaches to community development and community organizations in America and the English-speaking Caribbean. Students can work with a local community organization. 
304:Permission of the instructor. Data collection, analysis, and interpretation for independent research project. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
305:Permission of the instructor. Reading and study under a faculty member whose interests coincide with those of the individual student. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
306:Open to honors candidates. Permission of the instructor is required. Reading or study under a faculty member whose interests coincide with those of the individual student. 
307:An introduction to the study of creativity and aesthetic expression in everyday life, considering both traditional genres and contemporary innovations in the material, verbal, and musical arts. 
308:Introduces students to the disciplines comprising American Indian studies and teaches them how to integrate disciplines for a more complete understanding of the experiences of American Indian peoples. 
309:Explores the tremendous diversity that exists within and across American Indian nations, together with the concerns, issues, and challenges that shape the futures American Indians are charting for themselves. 
310:Survey of international social, political, and cultural patterns in selected societies of Africa, Asia, America, and Europe, stressing comparative analysis of conflicts and change in different historical contexts. LAC recitation sections offered in French, German, and Spanish. 
311:Students explore the biological and biocultural factors that shape human biology and health from the cellular to the societal levels. This course compares human biology, health, and development across a range of international settings. Students have the opportunity to analyze current research in human biology and conduct independent research. 
312:Introduction to method and theory in archaeology. An examination of how archaeologists make inferences about past societies, including reconstruction of culture histories; lifeways; ideologies; and social, political, and economic relationships. 
313:A survey of prehistoric art in Africa, the Americas, Australia, and Europe. 
314:Introductory ethnographic survey emphasizing 1) diversity of kinship systems, economies, polities, religious beliefs, etc.; 2) transformations during the colonial era; and 3) political and economic challenges of independent nations. Lectures, films, recitation. 
315:Broad survey of contemporary American Indian societies and cultures in the United States. Explores socio-cultural and historical diversity of tribes through film, autobiography, literature, current issues, guest speakers, archaeology, and history. 
316:An examination of the prehistory of Andean South America (Ecuador, Peru, and Bolivia) from first colonization 12,000 years ago to the fall of the Inca Empire in 1532 CE. 
317:Maya civilization is prominent among American societies that flourish prior to European incursions. Archaeological, epigraphic, and historical materials provide the foundation for understanding this past and its romance allure. 
318:Maya civilization is prominent among American societies that flourish prior to European incursions. Archaeological, epigraphic, and historical materials provide the foundation for understanding this past and its romance allure. 
319:This course surveys the archaeology of the Middle East focusing on major milestones in human history, including the initial expansion of humans out of Africa, human-Neanderthal interactions, the development of agriculture, and the rise of the world's first states and empires. 
320:This course introduces students to a tribally specific body of knowledge. The tribal focus of the course and the instructor change from term to term. 
321:Introduces anthropological approaches to identity. Explores the relationship of identity, cultural contexts, and social life. Emphasizes contemporary global cultural interchange and visual media as tools of self-expression. 
322:This course examines the social and cultural experience of medicine, the interpersonal and personal aspects of healing and being healed. It explores how medicine shapes and is shaped by those who inhabit this vital arena of human interaction: physicians, nurses, other professionals and administrators; patients; families; friends and advocates. 
323:Examines what it means to be male, female, and other gendered categories in different societies. Focus on institutions, groups, and individuals that both shape and challenge how gender is understood, organized, and enacted. 
324:The role of women in scientific domains throughout history and a consideration of the status of women and men as scientists. The development of science as a cultural practice. 
325:Cross-cultural perspectives on war in its relation to society, including Western and non-Western examples. Surveys political, economic, and cultural approaches to warfare and peacemaking. 
326:A cross-cultural look at gift giving, commodities, and status symbols. Course explores branded commodities, materialism as a factor in cultural change, global consumer culture, and local alternatives. 
327:Examines selected topics from an anthropological perspective. Course description is available from the departmental office. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
328:Examines selected topics from an anthropological perspective. Course description is available from the departmental office. 
329:This course introduces students to a tribally specific body of knowledge. The tribal focus of the course and the instructor change from term to term. 
330:Explores the nexus of agricultural, ecological, and food systems as they dynamically interact. The class examines case studies from North Carolina and other parts of the world. Themes include nutrition, food security, agroecology, and sustainable livelihoods. Students engage in readings, class projects, and hands-on activities in a laboratory setting. 
331:Course examines human adaptations to environments across Africa. Focuses on livelihood systems such as farming, herding and hunting/ gathering. 
332:Action research is a strategy for answering important questions, solving problems, and generating meaningful and democratic relationships. Through this course you will learn action research from an anthropological perspective through readings, essays, discussion, and hands-on experience. APPLES leadership and service students have seating priority. 
333:Explores how anthropologists can impact or participate in policy debates regarding contemporary social problems. Involves professional and internship options in public service fields. APPLES service-learning course. 
334:The history of North American Indian cultures from 10,000 BCE to the time of the European colonization as reconstructed by archaeological research. Special emphasis on the eastern and southwestern United States. 
335:The history of North American Indian cultures from 10,000 BCE to the time of the European colonization as reconstructed by archaeological research. Special emphasis on the eastern and southwestern United States. 
336:Examines how people in the past acquired, distributed, prepared, presented, consumed, and thought about food. Considers the questions that archaeologists ask, the data and methods they use to answer those questions, and how the study of food contributes to understanding people in the distant and recent past. 
337:A review of historical and theoretical developments that have framed archaeological research, including a discussion of substantive changes in research questions, topics, methods, and analyses that reshaped the field. Course will place American archaeology in a wider international context. 
338:Restricted to anthropology majors. Examines major theoretical perspectives that anthropologists have used to explain cultural diversity, social organization, and relations among societies. The class will offer a historical look at how anthropology developed its commitment to holism and ethnography and how contemporary debates have reshaped the field. 
339:Permission of the instructor. Data collection, analysis, and interpretation for independent research project. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
340:Permission of the instructor. Reading or study under a faculty member whose interests coincide with those of the individual student. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
341:Open only to and required of anthropology majors in their junior or senior year. Historical and contemporary issues and directions in the discipline as reflected in various concepts, theories, and research strategies. 
342:Open only to and required of anthropology majors in their junior or senior year. Historical and contemporary issues and directions in the discipline as reflected in various concepts, theories, and research strategies. 
343:Biological anthropology theory and practice, including human natural history, human genetics, epigenetics, and evolution; primatology; paleoanthropology; human biological variation; human biology and ecology; natural selection and adaptation in human evolution; and evolutionary, ecological, and biocultural perspectives on health and disease. 
344:This course provides an overview of language and power studies. Issues: sexist and sex-neutral language; languages of subcultures defined by gender, sexual orientation, ethnicity; hate speech; "politically correct" language. 
345:This course is an introduction to languages indigenous to the Americas. The course touches on the linguistic structure and classification of Native American languages as well as on social issues. 
346:This course aims to foster an appreciation of the tremendous role of water in shaping human experience, including the ways water shapes where people live, constrains what they do, and plays a major role in the institutionalization of social, political, and economic inequalities. No prerequisites or permissions. 
347:Case studies in environmental change, highlighting human and environmental dynamics in terrestrial and marine ecosystems on multiple spatial and temporal scales. Includes active learning modules, group presentations, writing assignments. 
348:Interaction of heredity, environment, and culture in shaping human biological diversity and behavior, and what such patterns of diversity reveal about our evolutionary past. 
349:Critical, partially historical discussion of evolutionary theories, including Darwinism, neo-Darwinism, ethnology and sociobiology, and their social- science analogs. Focus on the relevance and limitations of these theories for anthropology. 
350:Comparative study of human growth and development from conception through adulthood. Special emphasis on evolutionary, biocultural, ecological, and social factors that influence growth. 
351:This class explores some of the historical, biological, economic, medical, and social issues surrounding globalization and health consequences. 
352:Critical exploration of current debates in the anthropology of Third World development, the production of global inequality, and the construction of parts of the world as underdeveloped through discourses and practices of development. 
353:Survey of the interplay between emotional experience and social life. Emotions as learned, culturally variable, and socially performed perceptions, understandings, and actions. 
354:A workshop on careers in medical anthropology and the kinds of contributions that medical anthropologists make to health care professions. Students will learn skills including interviewing methods, writing for diverse audiences, blogging. Intended for medical anthropology minors and students interested in bringing anthropological perspectives to a range of practical contexts. 
355:Ethnographic study of the profound social and cultural transformations that accompanied the capitalist modernization of Japan. Considers the emergence of native ethnology and state interventions into everyday life. 
356:This course is a historical and ethnographic study of the problems of history, memory, and forgetting in contemporary society. 
357:This course explores how anthropological perspectives might take understandings of democracy in new and unanticipated directions. Using examples from across the globe students will investigate the forces and impacts of democracy. Through hands-on assignments, students will implement a local research project related to the theme of democracy. 
358:This cross-cultural study of art focuses on the forms, images, and meanings of paintings, drawings, and carvings produced by the Diyin Dine'é (Navajo), the Dogon (Mali, West Africa), and the Haida, Kwagiutl, Tlingit, and Tshimshian (northwest coast of North America). 
359:A journey into hidden worlds of southern meaning, exploring the region from the experiential lens of African Americans and the South's indigenous peoples, as a way of rethinking the question, "What does it mean to be a Southerner?" Students will explore focused issues each semester through intensive, group-based field work projects. 
360:Permission of the instructor. An introduction to the diversity of African American beliefs, experiences, and expressions from the colonial era to the present. Exploration will be both historical and thematic. 
361:Examines the production, circulation, and consumption of masks in both African and non-African contexts. Expands, nuances, and sometimes undoes our notions of mask, masquerade, and masking. 
362:An anthropological investigation of the role of skilled handiwork in the creation of contemporary culture and society. It includes field work with a local artisan. Ethnographies about artisan industries and apprenticeship in Latin America, Africa, and Southeast Asia guide our conceptual focus. No 
363:An anthropological investigation of the role of skilled handiwork in the creation of contemporary culture and society. It includes field work with a local artisan. Ethnographies about artisan industries and apprenticeship in Latin America, Africa, and Southeast Asia guide our conceptual focus. No 
364:Examines economic and cultural diversity of Latin America. Using case studies, class focuses on community social organization, work habits, family life and cosmologies, and the problem of inclusion in national cultures. 
365:This course offers an introduction to the peoples and current dynamics of South Asia by focusing on how communities are constituted and mobilized in India, Pakistan, Nepal, Sri Lanka, and Bangladesh. No prior knowledge of this world area is needed. 
366:The past in Southeast Asia's present, focusing on global, national, and local processes; individual and collective memory; and the legacies of violent death. 
367:This course explores many cultural factors and diverse peoples, non- Greco-Roman as well as Greco-Roman, that have formed the European identity from the earliest human occupation of Europe to present. 
368:Introduction to theories of cultural and social difference. Encourages students to use social theory and ethnography to understand how various societies imagine and enact their cultural and political worlds. 
369:A rotating topics course related to any of the subject areas and methodological approaches in medical anthropology. Seminar format will enable students to engage closely with a faculty member on his or her area of research. Intended for medical anthropology minors with enrollment open to other students if space allows. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
370:Permission of the instructor and the director of undergraduate studies. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
371:Permission of the instructor. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
372:Permission of the instructor. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
373:Permission of the instructor. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
374:Permission of the instructor. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
375:An introduction to the scientific study of language. The nature of language structure. How languages are alike and how they differ. 
376:Exploration of a broad selection of writings by native or indigenous scholars from tribal societies throughout the world. Seeks to understand the hopes, dreams, priorities, and perspectives of native peoples as expressed by and through their writers. 
377:An examination of the laboratory techniques used by archaeologists to analyze artifacts and organic remains, including the analysis of stone tools, pottery, botanical remains, and bone. 
378:An examination of the laboratory techniques used by archaeologists to analyze artifacts and organic remains, including the analysis of stone tools, pottery, botanical remains, and bone. 
379:This course traces the evolution of humans and nonhuman primates-- including behaviors, tools, and bodies of monkeys, apes, and human hunters and gatherers--evolutionary theory, and paleoanthropological methods. 
380:This course will focus on the analysis of plant remains from archaeological sites. Introduction to laboratory methods, analytical approaches, and interpretive framework for archaeobotany. Prior course in archaeology recommended but not required. 
381:Lab analysis of plant remains from archaeological sites with an emphasis on basic procedures for processing, sorting, and identifying macrobotanical remains. 
382:This course will focus on the analysis of human skeletal materials in the laboratory and in the field, with an emphasis on basic identification, age and sex estimation, and quantitative analysis. 
383:The laboratory analysis of human skeletal materials with an emphasis on basic identification, age and sex estimation, and quantitative analysis. 
384:This course will focus on the analysis of animal remains from archaeological sites. Introduction to laboratory methods, analytical approaches, and interpretive frameworks for zooarchaeology. 
385:The study of human skeletal remains from archaeological contexts. The collection and interpretation of quantitative and qualitative data is emphasized to assess the relationship between past biology, environment, culture, and behavior. 
386:Laboratory techniques in stone tool research and experimental practice. 
387:Required preparation, any course in archaeology or permission of the instructor. This is a required one-hour laboratory section to be taken in conjunction with ANTH 417. 
388:A survey of the laboratory techniques used by archaeologists to study and draw social and behavioral inferences from ancient pottery. 
389:Permission of the instructor. GIS experience required. This course explores applying GIS science technologies to anthropological problems. Students will learn GIS skills and apply them using spatial data. 
390:The aim of the course is to build an understanding of archaeology as a discipline that involves and affects the public. Among the areas to be covered are the implementation of federal, state, and other statutes, and the presentation of archaeological knowledge through museums and public media. 
391:Permission of the instructor. The application of geological principles and techniques to the solution of archaeological problems. Studies geological processes and deposits pertinent to archaeological sites, geologic framework of archaeology in the southeastern United States, and techniques of archaeological geology. Field trips to three or more sites; written reports required. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
392:An examination human rights issues from an anthropological perspective, addressing the historical formation of rights, their cross- cultural context and the emergence of humanitarian and human rights organizations on a global scale. 
393:This course combines laboratory training, field projects, lectures, films, discussion, and student presentations into a course on the science of human skeletal analysis. Students learn the laboratory methods scientists use to study human remains and the role of skeletal analysis in the study of contemporary forensic cases. 
394:Magic in anthropology and popular culture, from the 19th century to the present. Focuses on witchcraft and healing; arts of illusion; fantasy and (multiple) realities. Examines how realities are made and unmade through speech, rites, relations of power. 
395:Religion studied anthropologically as a cultural, social, and psychological phenomenon in the works of classical and contemporary social thought. 
396:Religion studied anthropologically as a cultural, social, and psychological phenomenon, in the works of classical and contemporary social thought. 
397:The formation and transformation of values, identities, and expressive forms in Southeast Asia in response to forms of power. Emphasis on the impact of colonialism, the nation-state, and globalization. 
398:This course explores consciousness through symbols. Symbols from religion, art, politics, and self are studied in social, psychological, historical, and ecological context to ascertain meanings in experience and behavior. 
399:This course explores evolutionary dimensions of variation in health and disease in human populations. Topics include biocultural and evolutionary models for the emergence of infectious and chronic diseases and cancers. 
400:A seminar on concepts of nature within religions and a variety of world-wide spiritual traditions. Emphasis on sacred space, place, and pilgrimage as a vital intersection of religion and nature. 
401:A seminar on concepts of nature within religions and a variety of world-wide spiritual traditions. Emphasis on sacred space, place, and pilgrimage as a vital intersection of religion and nature. 
402:Examines environmental degradation, hunger, and poverty through the lens of power relationships, particularly inequality, political and economic disenfranchisement, and discrimination. Discussion of global case studies, with a Latin American focus. 
403:The course explores cultural beliefs, practices, and social conditions that influence health and sickness of women and men from a cross-cultural perspective. 
404:This course examines postsocialist experiences of the relationship between political, economic, social, and cultural transitions, and challenges in public health and gender relations. 
405:This course takes a cross-cultural approach to understanding how reproduction and associated phenomena become arenas where political debates are played out, and where global and local social relations are contested. 
406:This course brings an anthropological approach to understanding the intersections between medicine, politics, and public health. 
407:This course examines the intersections between migration processes and the political, economic, and social dimensions of health and well-being among migrants, their families, and their communities. 
408:This course examines poverty, inequalities, and health from a global and historical perspective. We will study the role of sociopolitical context, individual behavior, and human biology, and will pay particular attention to the roles of psychosocial stress, material conditions, and policy in shaping health differences within and between populations. 
409:Anthropological investigations of work and the relationship between work, family life, and community in contemporary societies in the United States, Asia, and Latin America, within the framework of globalization. 
410:Anthropological investigations of work and the relationship between work, family life, and community in contemporary societies in the United States, Asia, and Latin America, within the framework of globalization. 
411:Critical study of Marx' mature social theory and its relationship to contemporary anthropology. 
412:Intensive training in archaeological field methods and techniques. Students participate in the excavation, recovery, recording, and interpretation of archaeological remains. Instruction given in survey, mapping, photography, flotation recovery, etc. 
413:Intensive training in archaeological field methods and techniques. Students participate in the excavation, recovery, recording, and interpretation of archaeological remains. Instruction given in survey, mapping, photography, flotation recovery, etc. 
414:Memory and history, history and politics, national narratives, the past in the present, and the present in the past; a cross-cultural examination of ways of connecting the present and the past. 
415:Intensive study of archaeological field and laboratory methods and prehistory of the Andes through excavation and analysis of materials from archaeological sites in Peru. Includes tours of major archaeological sites. 
416:Intensive study of archaeological field and laboratory methods and prehistory of the Andes through excavation and analysis of materials from archaeological sites in Peru. Includes tours of major archaeological sites. 
417:How is archaeological evidence used to understand the movement of Africans and their descendants across the globe? This course focuses on what archaeologists have learned about the transformation of societies on the African continent and in the Americas from the era of the trans- Atlantic slave trade to the present. 
418:The study of small-scale hunter-gatherer and farming societies from archaeological and ethnographic perspectives. Methods and theories for investigating economic, ecological, and social relations in such societies are explored. 
419:Required preparation, at least one ANTH or one WMST course. A discussion of gender and sex roles and sexuality in past cultures; a cross- cultural examination of ways of knowing about past human behavior. 
420:Examines how human-environmental adaptations shape the economic, social, and cultural lives of hunter-gatherers, pastoralists and agriculturalists. Approaches include optimal foraging theory, political ecology and subsistence risk. 
421:Historical ecology is a framework for integrating physical, biological, and social science data with insights from the humanities to understand the reciprocal relationship between human activity and the Earth system. 
422:This course examines colonialism and postcolonialism through the lenses of history and anthropology respectively. Through history, it asks, What were the dynamics of colonialism then? Through anthropology, it questions, What are the conditions, quandaries, and possibilities of postcolonialism now? Regional focus varies by instructor and year. 
423:This class will be framed around readings that explore the varied impact of European settlement across the globe. In focusing on both the varied global legacies of colonialism and the continued sociopolitical movements of indigenous populations, this class will encourage a broad perspective on what settler colonialism looks like today. 
424:An investigation of economic systems that are sustainable alternatives to the prevailing economic order. Topics include markets, the commons, cooperatives, local trading systems, and social movements working to achieve alternatives. 
425:Examines three broad perspectives used to explain inequality: ecological, cultural, and political. Students read theoretical works and evaluate arguments using ethnographies that describe local economies, institutions, and adaptive practices. 
426:The course examines the state, from its initial appearance 5,000 years ago to newly established nation-states, exploring the concepts of ethnicity, class, race, and history in state formation and maintenance. 
427:Studies links between history and anthropology; cultures in historical perspective and history in cultural perspective; and effects of relations of power and historical interconnections on the peoples of the world. 
428:This course examines cultural understandings of health, illness, and medical systems from an anthropological perspective with a special focus on Western medicine. 
429:This course explores maternal and child health from an evolutionary, biocultural, and global health perspective. It focuses on the physiological, ecological, and cultural factors shaping health and takes a life course perspective to examine childhood development, reproductive processes such as pregnancy, birth and lactation, and menopause and aging. 
430:Anthropological and historical studies of cultural constructions of bodily experience and subjectivity are reviewed, with emphasis on the genesis of the modern individual and cultural approaches to gender and sexuality. 
431:Investigates the social, cultural, and historical variation in the conception of disability, in its practical meaning and performance, and in its social and medical management. Special attention is paid to the interplay of embodiment, identity, and agency in work and everyday life and in political action and advocacy. 
432:This course introduces students to visual forms of communication through both the analysis and production of still and video materials. Ethics, cross-cultural representations, and ethnographic theory will all be explored. 
433:Study of cultural variation in styles of speaking applied to collection of ethnographic data. Talk as responsive social action and its role in the constitution of ethnic and gender identities. 
434:Restricted to junior and senior anthropology majors; generally the course is limited to 18 students. The subject matter will vary with the instructor. Each course will concern itself with a study in contemporary anthropology and new directions in research or applications. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
435:Introduction to political anthropology. A thematically organized investigation of political processes in state societies, including state formation, with special attention to ethnographic and historical approaches. 
436:Anthropological examination of processes of globalization and transnationalism, with special attention to transnational migration, emergence of transnational ('global') institutions, commodity flows, and dissemination of ideologies, cultural frameworks, and media imagery. 
437:Classic writings and debates relating to gender and development, with emphasis on recent work that critiques conventional development models. The scope is global, with special attention to Latin America and to such questions as how alternative approaches to gender, culture, and development may be more inclusive of diverse peoples and grassroots movements for change. 
438:Introduction to the general principles of linguistic phonetics; anatomy of vocal tract, physiology of speech production, universal phonetic theory. Practice in the recognition and transcription of speech sounds. 
439:Permission of the instructor for undergraduates. Introduction to the principles of modern generative phonology. Methods and theory of phonological analysis. Students may not receive credit for both LING 200 and LING 523. 
440:Systems theory used to conceptualize relationship between cultural patterns and individual minds. Functional, dysfunctional, and therapeutic processes considered. Examples from Africa, Asia, Europe, and Native America. Lectures, films, recitations. 
441:Examines the culturally and historically variable ways in which individuals constitute themselves as cis- or transgendered subjects, drawing upon extant expressive resources, modifying them, and expanding options available to others. Performance of self as the product of esthetically marked or unmarked, everyday actions. 
442:Colonization of Atlantic America between 1500 and 1900, through landscape change, agriculture, poverty, labor discrimination, and slavery differentially placed subsets of the general population at risk for infectious disease and other insults to their health. Lecture and discussion using archaeological and bioarchaeological studies, modern disease studies, and historic documents. 
443:Course examining issues of race, poverty, and equity in the environmental movement. Cases include the siting of toxic incinerators in predominantly people-of-color communities to resource exploitation on indigenous lands. 
444:Analysis of the social-environmental crisis and approaches to redress it, particularly those that posit ecological and cultural transitions beyond current globalization models. Participants will construct their own scenarios for transitions to sustainable and pluralistic societies. The course will have an in-built, collective research component. Intended for upper-division undergraduates. 
445:Introduction to the study of language in relation to society; variation as it correlates with socioeconomic status, region, gender; the social motivation of change; language and equality; language maintenance, planning, shift. 
446:Examines struggles to define culture and the nation in 20th-century China in domains like popular culture, museums, traditional medicine, fiction, film, ethnic group politics, and biography and autobiography. 
447:Current issues and interpretations in the archaeology of the American South. Through weekly readings and discussions, students will explore the lifeways and changes that characterized each major period of the South's ancient history, from 12,000 years ago to the beginnings of European colonization. 
448:This course explores archaeological evidence for the origins of food production. We address when and where this profound change occurred as well as focusing on why it happened and what its consequences were. We will examine current evidence for the origins of agriculture in both Old and New Worlds. 
449:Extends anthropological approaches to identity in social life. Examines social position, power, and cultural imagination; the personal and collective dynamics of sociocultural change; and the concept of agency. 
450:Comparative study of the political economy and cultural politics of populations in spaces and landscapes in cities in America and Third World undergoing globalization, economic restructuring, and transnational immigration. 
451:Explores the indigenous Chinese sciences and the cosmological ideas that informed them. Topics include astronomy, divination, medicine, fengshui, and political and literary theory. Chinese sources in translation are emphasized. 
452:Examination of the histories, social organization, and cultures of the Chinese diasporas in the Asia Pacific region, focusing on contemporary issues in the cultural politics and identities of "overseas Chinese. 
453:We will consider the JFK assassination, in detail and in historical context, and several subsequent real and imagined conspiracies, including 9/11. The course focuses on a fundamental issue in social analysis: the empirical and epistemological bases of what we know about our society, its current events and recent history. 
454:We will consider the JFK assassination, in detail and in historical context, and several subsequent real and imagined conspiracies, including 9/11. The course focuses on a fundamental issue in social analysis: the empirical and epistemological bases of what we know about our society, its current events and recent history. 
455:Cultural perspectives on science and technology at a global scale, including research settings and social contexts, knowledge claims and material practice, and relations between scientific worldviews, social institutions, and popular imagination. 
456:The religious landscape and built environments of Japan. Attention to palace, courtyard, and teahouse architecture and gardens, with emphasis on Shinto shrines and the Zen Buddhist temple and garden. 
457:Subject matter will vary with instructor but will focus on some particular topic or anthropological approach. Course description is available from the departmental office. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
458:Subject matter will vary with instructor but will focus on some particular topic or anthropological approach. Course description is available from the departmental office. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
459:This seminar considers cultural ecologies of disease by examining how social, cultural, and historical factors shape disease patterns. We examine how ecosystems are shaped by disease, how disease shapes ecosystems, and how cultural processes (e.g., population movements, transportation, economic shifts, landscape modifications, and built environments) contribute to emerging infectious disease. 
460:This course compares disciplinary approaches of public health and anthropology. We begin by examining the social determinants of health paradigms and relationships between inequality, poverty, and global health. We will explore epidemiological, biocultural, and symbolic approaches to these problems. Public policy and health development will also be examined. 
461:The course focuses on the practical and research uses of ethnography and oral history, emphasizing life histories, life stories, biographies, and how these intersect with communities. 
462:In-depth reading of several books and articles that consider the interaction between indigenous African traditions and intrusive colonial and postcolonial forces. Emphasis on class discussion. Short papers and individual projects. 
463:Permission of the instructor. Explores issues of culture and language associated with teaching English as a second language. 
464:Reexamination of the 'tragedy of the commons' concept in light of recent work on environmental problems, property rights, and community-based conservation. Case studies include fishery, waterway, forest, and pasture management. 
465:The course examines intersections between life, death, and contemporary politics, with a historical focus on the health of populations. It combines theoretical discussions with comparative empirical cases in a global frame and includes a research component. 
466:This is an advanced course in the reconstruction of nutrition and health in past populations. Among the topics explored are epidemiology, disease ecology, dietary reconstruction, and paleopathology. 
467:Death is a universal event, yet treatment of the dead varies from society to society. This course will be directed at examining mortuary rituals, memory and identity, and the scientific study of the dead to interpret the space and place of death in archaeological contexts. 
468:This course focuses on the relationship between family, kinship, new reproductive technologies, and the new genetics from a cross-cultural perspective. 
469:This course focuses on the relationship between family, kinship, new reproductive technologies, and the new genetics from a cross cultural perspective. 
470:This course examines entanglements between the past and present from multiple and conflicting perspectives, highlighting an archaeological point of view. Models of participatory research are considered in relation to cultural heritage, and indigenous-rights perspectives are discussed in reference to archaeological, nation-state, and global interests. 
471:Intensive study and practice of the core research methods of cultural and social anthropology. 
472:Presents recent anthropological research on the People's Republic of China. In addition to social sciences sources, fictional genres are used to explore the particular modernity of Chinese society and culture. 
473:Permission of the instructor. Exercises (including field work) in learning to read the primary modes of public action in religious traditions, e.g., sermons, testimonies, rituals, and prayers. 
474:Subject matter will vary with instructor but will focus on some particular topic or anthropological approach. Course description is available from the departmental office. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
475:Permission of the instructor. Open only to honors candidates. 
476:Open only to senior honors candidates. Permission of the instructor is required. 
477:-12 Credits. Permission of the instructor. Advanced specialty topics in applied physical sciences for undergraduates. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
478:Chemical structure and nomenclature of macromolecules, synthesis of polymers, characteristic polymer properties. CHEM 262 or 262H, and 262L or 263L. 
479:Synthesis and reactions of polymers; various polymerization techniques. 
480:Polymerization and characterization of macromolecules in solution. 
481:Polymer dynamics, networks and gels. 
482:Prerequisite, CHEM 482; or Crystal geometry, diffusion in solids, mechanical properties of solids, electrical conduction in solids, thermal properties of materials, phase equilibria. 
483:Permission of the instructor. A survey of materials processing and characterization used in fabricating microelectronic devices. Crystal growth, thin film deposition and etching, and microlithography. 
484:The structural and energetic nature of surface states and sites, experimental surface measurements, reactions on surfaces including bonding to surfaces and adsorption, interfaces. 
485:Topics vary from semester to semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
486:Structure determination and measurement of the optical, electrical, and magnetic properties of solids. 
487:Continuation of PHYS 491L with emphasis on low- and high-temperature behavior, the physical and chemical behavior of lattice imperfections and amorphous materials, and the nature of radiation damage. 
488:Various polymerization techniques and characterization methods. One four-hour laboratory each week. 
489:Crystal symmetry, types of crystalline solids; electron and mechanical waves in crystals, electrical and magnetic properties of solids, semiconductors; low temperature phenomena; imperfections in nearly perfect crystals. students lacking the prerequisite. 
490:Crystallography, reciprocal lattices, Bloch waves, band structure, electronic wave functions, phonons, thermal expansion. Superlattice structures, including liquid crystals. Overview of properties of ceramic, amorphous, polymeric, and composite materials. 
491:Permission of the instructor and the director of undergraduate studies. Internships combine substantive work experience with an academic project. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 12 total credits. 2 total completions. 
492:Permission of the instructor. For students who wish to participate in laboratory or field research programs. May be taken twice. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 12 total credits. 2 total completions. 
493:Permission of the instructor. Special reading and research in archaeology under the supervision of a selected instructor. May be taken twice. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 12 total credits. 2 total completions. 
494:Permission of the instructor. Restricted to senior honors candidates. First semester of senior honors thesis. Independent research under the direction of an archaeology curriculum faculty member. 
495:Permission of the instructor. Restricted to senior honors candidates. Second semester of senior honors thesis. Independent research under the direction of an archaeology curriculum faculty member. 
496:Who were the Celts, and more specifically, who were the Druids? Little is known about the ancient Druids, yet they have captured the imagination of Western Europeans and North Americans for centuries. They have defined ethnic identity for disparate cultures. So who were they, and who are they today? 
497:This course will examine presentations and representations of the body in Western art and how such portrayals relate to their social, cultural, and political contexts. 
498:Focusing on one or two works of art per week in a variety of media, this course explores the complex relationship between art, war, and conflict in the modern world. 
499:This first-year seminar introduces students to some of the issues related to representations of western European men and women in the period 1400-1700. Portraits, mythological and biblical imagery, and even architecture will be studied for their attention to gender. 
500:This first-year seminar introduces students to some of the issues related to representations of western European men and women in the period 1400-1700. Portraits, mythological and biblical imagery, and even architecture will be studied for their attention to gender. 
501:This course traces the "lives" of East Asian artworks as to how they entered the Ackland Art Museum, transformed, and became part of its collection, as well as related issues. 
502:This course traces the "lives" of East Asian artworks as to how they entered the Ackland Art Museum, transformed, and became part of its collection, as well as related issues. 
503:This course explores the visual arts created by African Americans living and working in the Carolinas from the era of plantation slavery through the 20th century. 
504:This seminar focuses on how the collecting and study of natural and aesthetic wonders shaped ideas about knowledge in the arts and sciences. 
505:This seminar explores the complex relationship between art and economy in the age of capitalism, focusing on artworks that interpret market activities and address the subject of economic value. 
506:This seminar will introduce students to practices of critical analysis that inform academic work in all the core humanistic disciplines: how do we ask analytical questions about texts, artwork, and other cultural artifacts that come down to us from the past or circulate in our own culture? 
507:In the course of the semester, each student will learn to become an art historian. Students will undertake a series of viewing, research, and writing exercises, which will culminate in the production of an exhibition catalogue on world art titled "In the Eye of the Beholder. 
508:In the course of the semester, each student will learn to become an art historian. Students will undertake a series of viewing, research, and writing exercises, which will culminate in the production of an exhibition catalogue on world art titled "In the Eye of the Beholder. 
509:Explores the intersection of science and Islamic visual arts (manuscript painting, architecture, objects, material culture). Course teaches visual analysis and interpretation, and experiments with digital humanities approaches. 
510:Students will pay special attention to recent historical and theoretical studies of Impressionist and post-Impressionist painting, as well as selected French novels of the period. 
511:Content varies by semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
512:Content varies by semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
513:This course provides an introductory survey of some of the major traditions of art making throughout the world, from prehistory to the present. 
514:This course provides an introductory survey of some of the major traditions of art making throughout the world, from prehistory to the present. 
515:This is the first semester of a two-semester survey that is designed to acquaint the beginning student with the historical development of art and with the offerings and instructors of the art history faculty. ARTH 151 covers ancient, medieval, and early Renaissance periods. 
516:This is the first semester of a two-semester survey that is designed to acquaint the beginning student with the historical development of art and with the offerings and instructors of the art history faculty. ARTH 151 covers ancient, medieval, and early Renaissance periods. 
517:This is the second semester of the two-semester survey course including Western art from the Renaissance to the modern period. ARTH 151 is not a prerequisite for ARTH 152. 
518:This is the second semester of the two-semester survey course including Western art from the Renaissance to modern art. ARTH 151 is not a prerequisite for ARTH 152. 
519:An introductory survey of the visual arts of South Asia. 
520:This course introduces the arts of the Islamic lands from the seventh- century rise of the Umayyad dynasty of Syria to the 16th-century expansion of the Ottoman Empire. 
521:This course introduces the arts of the Islamic lands from the seventh- century rise of the Umayyad dynasty of Syria to the 16th-century expansion of the Ottoman Empire. 
522:A selective survey of sub-Saharan African art (sculpture, painting, architecture, performance, personal decoration) in myriad social contexts (ceremony, politics, royalty, domestic arenas, cross-cultural exchanges, colonialism, postcolonialism, the international art world). 
523:What is architecture? What does it do? This course is designed to encourage students to consider architecture less as something technical, existing in a separate sphere from everyday life, but as social space. 
524:What is architecture? What does it do? This course is designed to encourage students to consider architecture less as something technical, existing in a separate sphere from everyday life, but as social space. 
525:This course examines manifestations of visual culture such as festivals and their related objects, comics, and painting in Latin America according to themes like indigenismo, religion, race, modernism, and identity. 
526:This course traces the history of art and architecture in premodern East Asia, emphasizing ideas and ways of seeing and representing that were common or different across East Asia. 
527:A critical and historical introduction to film from a visual arts perspective. The course surveys the history of film from its inception to the present, drawing upon both foreign and American traditions. 
528:This course introduces the art, architecture, and cultures of Pre-Hispanic Mesoamerica, from the rise of Mesoamerica's first high civilization in the second millennium BCE to the defeat of the Aztec Empire in 1521 CE. 
529:Introduces the art and architecture of the caliphal period, concentrating on the seventh through 12th centuries (the "classical" period of Islamic art). 
530:This course analyzes the role of women in Western art as art producers and consumers of art and looks at how women have been represented. 
531:This course explores the art and culture of sub-Saharan Africa on the levels of both production and consumption both locally and globally. 
532:This course investigates cultural and artistic complexities and diversities in medieval China, resulting from its exchanges with neighboring peoples during the period between the Han and Tang dynasties. 
533:A selective survey of Native North American art (sculpture, painting, architecture, performance, personal decoration) in myriad social contexts (ceremony, politics, domestic arenas, cross-cultural exchanges, colonialism, postcolonialism, the international art world). 
534:This course surveys American art and architecture, analyzing paintings, sculpture, buildings, and popular imagery produced between the early colonial period and World War I. 
535:Required preparation, any introductory art history course or permission of the instructor. A chronological study of the main development of Greek sculpture, architecture and painting from the fifth to the first centuries BCE. 
536:The arts of Rome, particularly architecture, sculpture, and painting, proceeded by a survey of Etruscan and Hellenic art and their influence on Rome. 
537:Required preparation, any introductory art history course or permission of the instructor. Survey of major developments in painting and sculpture in Europe during the Latin Middle Ages (300-1400 CE). 
538:Required preparation, any introductory art history course or permission of the instructor. Understanding the meaning of medieval art by examining the iconography of selected important works. 
539:Required preparation, any introductory art history course or permission of the instructor. Understanding the meaning of medieval art by examining the iconography of selected important works. 
540:Required preparation, any introductory art history course or permission of the instructor. This course is an introduction to the visual culture of early and medieval India. 
541:This course focuses on the relationship between the national and international and art and politics within Latin American modernist movements from ca. 1900 to 1960. 
542:3 Credits. This course covers the development of Gothic church and secular architecture in Europe between 1130 and 1500. It explores the formal and constructive progress in architecture (including its decoration: sculpture, stained glass windows) as well as the social, political, and economic aspects of medieval society that affected these developments. 
543:Required preparation, any introductory art history course or permission of the instructor. The course develops a solid acquaintance with representative aspects of Italian art from about 1250 to 1450. In alternate semesters the emphasis may change from central (Florence, Rome) to northern (Venice) Italy. 
544:Required preparation, any introductory art history course or permission of the instructor. The course is a survey of major Italian painting from about 1490 to 1575. From semester to semester the emphasis may alternate between central Italian and Venetian/northern Italian works. 
545:Required preparation, any introductory art history course or permission of the instructor. Survey of painting and sculpture ca. 1400-1600 in the Netherlands--Belgium (Flanders) and Holland--as well as France and England. 
546:Required preparation, any introductory art history course or permission of the instructor. This course explores the visual culture patronized by the Mughal dynasty in India from the 11th to the 17th centuries. 
547:Required preparation, any introductory art history course or permission of the instructor. This course examines 17th-century art and architecture in Europe. 
548:An introductory survey of architecture, sculpture, and painting with emphasis on European developments in the fine and decorative arts from the late 17th century to the Napoleonic era. 
549:This course surveys the art and architecture of Hispanophone and Lusophone America of the Viceregal period (1492-ca. 1810). 
550:This course explores the visual culture of England during the reigns of the Tudors and Stuarts. This will include portraits of Henry VIII, Elizabeth I, and Charles I by artists such as Holbein, Van Dyck, and Rubens, royal palaces, printed books, tomb monuments, heraldry, spectacles, as well as portraits of the middle classes. 
551:This course presents a select history of photography from its invention to its most recent manifestations. Global in its orientation, this course is designed thematically rather than chronologically to develop dialogues between places and ideas. 
552:Recommended preparation, any ARTH 50-80 or 100-199. The development of European art from 1850 to 1905, with an emphasis on French avant-garde movements including realism and impressionism. 
553:This class explores the cultural, political, and artistic circumstances in which images of Paris have been made and viewed, as well as various visual technologies that have disseminated and marketed. 
554:Required preparation, any introductory art history course or permission of the instructor. Major figures, movements, and themes of modernism from cubism and the emergence of abstraction to the transfer of artistic energy and innovation to the United States after World War II. 
555:This course will explore major trends in Western art since 1960. It focuses on key contemporary movements and their relations to social, cultural and political contexts. 
556:An introduction to African American art and artists and their social contexts from early slavery. 
557:This course surveys the broad spectrum of 19th-century artistic practice in the United States, focusing on academic and popular artworks that addressed the major conflicts and crises of the period. 154, 155, 156, 157, 158, 159, 160, or 261; permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisite. 
558:This course surveys the wide field of early 20th-century American art, stressing the diverse and contested character of artistic modernism in the United States. 154, 155, 156, 157, 158, 159, 160, or 261. 
559:Required preparation, any introductory art history course or permission of the instructor. Selected topics in art history. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
560:This course explores how power operates through objects in Africa, including royal regalia, objects used in healing and other ritual contexts, and African art as commodity in international markets. 
561:Required preparation, any introductory art history course or permission of the instructor. This course surveys the ancient art and architecture of Egypt, the Near East, and the Aegean Bronze Age, from the Neolithic period to the end of the Neo-Assyrian empire. 
562:Students complete an internship in an art history related field. Students will gain practical knowledge of the practice of art history. Studio majors may use this course to fulfill an art history requirement by pursuing faculty-approved, nonpaid internships working in nonprofit or commercial art sectors. 
563:This course focuses on a wide range of regions, time periods, and genres in the visual arts in southern Africa, including archaeological materials, arts associated with longstanding indigenous cultures, art that reflects the often violent encounter with European cultures, and contemporary arts that are produced in the region today. 
564:This course introduces manufacturing history of Chinese ceramics in a broader material and visual cultural context, as well as its relation to other genres of Chinese art. 
565:This course addresses the roles of art in the lives of West Africans who make and use it, spanning centuries of African creativity from archaeological sites to 21st-century artists. 
566:This course focuses on African art produced in the mid-twentieth century. It promotes comparative analysis around themes of modernity, nationalism, independence, identity, and the role of the artist in society. 
567:This course examines fashion and the political, social, and cultural discourses, conditions, and institutional formations used in the creation of varied social and personal identities. 
568:Art elucidates French and African experiences of colonial rule, as a record of political transformations and a tool for resistance and the assertion of local cultures. 
569:People everywhere use works of art to facilitate worship, to depict spirits, and to celebrate their beliefs. Islam, a major religion in Africa, is no exception. This course focuses on Islam in African visual arts. 
570:Focusing on art museums in Europe and North America, this course considers the emergence and development of museums as powerful social and cultural institutions from the mid-18th century to the late 20th century. Topics include museums and national identity, museum architecture, and changing conceptions of the public. 
571:Undergraduate seminar on visual arts and cultural interchange between the Muslim, Christian, and Jewish communities of medieval Spain. Combines intensive reading and discussion with introduction to art historical research. 
572:Required preparation, any introductory art history course or permission of the instructor. This course surveys the main works of Crusader art in order to understand their nature and development from 1099 to 1291. The Crusader monuments are set in their historical context and in relation to Byzantine and Western European art. 
573:This course uses case studies to introduce students to the visual culture manifested in architecture, festivals, ritual spaces, clothing, and objects associated with religious practices of Latin America. students lacking the prerequisite. 
574:Examines the production, circulation, and consumption of masks in both African and non-African contexts. Expands, nuances, and sometimes undoes our notions of mask, masquerade, and masking. 
575:Covers medieval and early modern artifacts and monuments connected with death as well as the diversity of donations for individual commemoration. Explores the social, political, and economic aspects of medieval/early modern society that affected these developments and phenomena. 
576:This course will explore the modes in which saints and issues related to sainthood are visualized in medieval art. 
577:Required preparation, any introductory art history course or permission of the instructor. The early Christian origins of art and architecture in domestic and public contexts of the 200-600 CE Christian communities; the 18th- and 20th-century adaptation of early Christian art. 
578:This course investigates different genres of Buddhist art in medieval China, produced to disseminate religion and give rise to a new religious vision and imagination. 
579:This course explores the art of the late medieval period in Byzantium and the Latin West. 
580:This course focuses on European portraits produced in the period c. 1400-1600. Through careful study of specific paintings, prints, and sculptures, by artists such as Leonardo da Vinci, Michelangelo, and Albrecht Dürer, we will explore different ways of interpreting portraiture in the Renaissance, addressing issues of identity, reception, and function. 
581:This course focuses on the visual arts of Europe between 1750 and 1830, and addresses the political, social, cultural, and aesthetic issues pertinent to art in an age of revolution. 
582:This course explores intersections of art and economics from the 18th century to the present. Both physical money and artworks engaging monetary ideas will be considered. 
583:Required preparation, any introductory art history course or permission of the instructor. This course will examine the history of architecture from the late 19th century to the present. 
584:This course will investigate what is commonly termed "pop art." We will examine the various issues at stake in the appropriation of mass media imagery and techniques, the diversity within the movement, the different arguments surrounding particular artists and artworks, and pop art's continuing legacy in work by contemporary artists. 
585:Focus on the historical development of African American art from the Harlem Renaissance of early 20th century through the Black Arts Movement and Feminist Art Movement 1960s and early 1970s. 
586:Required preparation, any intermediate art history course or permission of the instructor. Selected topics in art history. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
587:Required preparation, art history major and sophomore standing or permission of the instructor. Introduces students to research in art history. Seminar involves a multi-stage research project beginning with close analysis of an art object and culminating with a research paper. Topics are drawn from ancient/medieval, early modern, and modern/ contemporary art. 
588:Permission of the instructor. Independent study under the direction of a faculty member. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
589:Permission of the instructor. This course investigates mural painting and state patronage in post-Revolutionary Mexico, from 1921 to 1945, when artists engaged politics in monumental public works. Focuses on the murals of Diego Rivera, José Clemente Orozco, and David Alfaro Siqueiros, as well as on the relationship between art and politics. 
590:A city or cities will be considered as cultural artifact(s), with emphasis given to plans and planning, architecture, public monuments and to various institutions, such as religion, government, the arts, and commerce that initiate or affect these urban developments and forms. 
591:A city or cities will be considered as cultural artifact(s), with emphasis given to plans and planning, architecture, public monuments and to various institutions, such as religion, government, the arts, and commerce that initiate or affect these urban developments and forms. 
592:Discussion of topics related to the representation of women in Western art and/or women as producers of art. 
593:This course covers the development of modernism in the visual arts in Brazil from 1917, the year in which a Brazilian artist first exhibited "modernist" artworks in Brazil, to 1960. for students lacking the prerequisite. 
594:Restricted to sophomores, juniors, and seniors. Examines the ways African art appears in United States popular culture (advertisements, magazines, toys, films, art) to generate meanings about Africa. Addresses intersecting issues of nationalism, multiculturalism, imperialism, nostalgia, race. 
595:3 Credits. Covers the development of Gothic church and secular architecture in Europe between 1130 and 1500. Explores formal and constructive progress in architecture (including sculpture and stained glass windows) and social, political, and economic aspects of medieval society that affected these developments. 
596:The course covers the development of art and architecture from ca. 1300 to ca. 1600 in one of the most important medieval and early modern art centers in Europe: Nuremberg, the hometown of the famous German painter Albrecht Dürer (1471-1528). students lacking the prerequisite. 
597:Required preparation, any intermediate art history course or permission of the instructor. This thematic course explores how objects and monuments are viewed, experienced, and used in a ritual context in South Asia. 
598:Required preparation, any intermediate art history course or permission of the instructor. Study of prints and printmaking in Western art from ca. 1400 to the present focusing on selected topics. 
599:This course focuses on palaces, gardens, and court cultures beginning with the eighth-century Umayyad period and ending with the 16th-century reigns of the Mughal, Safavid, and Ottoman dynasties. students lacking the prerequisite. 
600:Required preparation, any intermediate art history course or permission of the instructor. A survey of the development of Greek art from geometric to Hellenistic painting through a study of Greek vases, mosaics, and mural paintings. 
601:Required preparation, any intermediate art history course or permission of the instructor. A focused study of sculpture during the Archaic period in Greece. 
602:Permission of the instructor. A focused study of Greek sculpture during the classical period. 
603:Required preparation, any intermediate art history course or permission of the instructor. A focused study of Greek sculpture in the Hellenistic period. 
604:A survey of Greek architectural development from the Dark Ages through the fourth century BCE. Special topics include the beginnings of monumental architecture, the development of the orders, and interpretations of individual architects in terms of style and proportions. students lacking the prerequisite. 
605:The development of architecture in the Roman world from the ninth century BCE through the fourth century CE. The course focuses on the development of urbanism and the function, significance, and evolution of the main building types and their geographic distribution. students lacking the prerequisite. 
606:Required preparation, any intermediate art history course or permission of the instructor. Chronological survey of major developments in book painting during the European Middle Ages from 300 to 1450 CE. 
607:Required preparation, any intermediate art history course or permission of the instructor. This course explores the art and culture from the Hallstat and La Tène periods (seventh century BCE) to the Celtic "renaissance" (ca. 400-1200 CE). 
608:This course examines visual materials, including those from fine arts, commerce, popular culture, political propaganda, avant-garde movements, etc., produced in modern and contemporary China as an important means of defining China's self-identity in the modern and global world. 
609:This course provides a comprehensive introduction to the art of the Aztec Empire, including architecture, monumental sculpture, small-scale sculpture, ceramics, painting, lapidary work, gold work, and feather work. 
610:The course explores the range of contexts in which images in the medieval period were made to move; for instance, in rituals, processions, and miracles. 
611:Required preparation, any intermediate art history course or permission of the instructor. Advanced study of painting and sculpture in France, England, and the Netherlands, 1300 to 1400. 
612:Required preparation, any intermediate art history course or permission of the instructor. This course explores specialized themes and/or broad topics in Western European art of the early modern period. 
613:Required preparation, any intermediate art history course or permission of the instructor. This course explores specialized themes and/or broad topics in Western European art of the early modern period. 
614:Required preparation, any intermediate art history course or permission of the instructor. This course traces major historical developments in the decorative and applied arts, landscape design, and material culture of Western society from the Renaissance to the present. 
615:Survey of Roman sculpture (200 BCE-300 CE), including portraiture, state reliefs, funerary monuments, and idealizing sculpture, with emphasis on style, iconography, and historical development of sculpture in its sociocultural, political, and religious contexts. 
616:This course will examine theories and instances of image making and breaking from the classical world to the early modern world, covering late antiquity, iconoclasm in Byzantium, and the medieval West. 
617:Surveys Roman painting from 200 BCE to 300 CE, with emphasis on style, iconography, historical development of painting in its sociocultural, political, and religious contexts. Treats current debates in scholarship. 
618:An exploration of the ways that American artists negotiated the Civil War, examining artworks and popular images addressing slavery and sectionalism, the wartime experience, and the project of Reconstruction. 154, 155, 156, 157, 158, 159, 160, or 261; permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisite. 
619:An examination of the interaction of artists, criticism, and the market with larger political and social developments in France, with an emphasis on primary sources. 
620:Examines the Harlem Renaissance (1918-1942) as an instance of both transnational modernism and cultural nationalism through study of how artworks articulate interrelated conceptions of race, gender, sexuality, and social class. 
621:Required preparation, any intermediate art history course or permission of the instructor. This class will examine the presence and influences of African culture in the art and material culture of Africans in the Americas from the colonial period to the present. 
622:Examines modern and contemporary African art (1940s to the present) for Africans on the continent and abroad. Examines tradition, cultural heritage, colonialism, postcolonialism, local versus global, nationalism, gender, identity, diaspora. instructor for students lacking the prerequisite. 
623:Required preparation, any intermediate art history course or permission of the instructor. Selected topics in art history. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
624:Explores the role of monuments in the formation of cultural memory and identity, both nationally and globally. Topics include the construction of identities in and through public spaces, commemoration of both singular individuals and ordinary citizens, and the appearance of new types of post-traumatic monuments in the 20th century. 
625:Required preparation, any intermediate art history course or permission of the instructor. A study of the principal critics and historians who have contributed to the development of modern art history. Also application of the principles to specific works of art. 
626:A study of how the human body has been represented in contemporary art and the relation of those representations to theories of the individual and society. 
627:Required preparation, any intermediate art history course or permission of the instructor. This course examines representational othering of black, Asian, Latina/o, and Native American people in images in the Americas through postcolonial topics like racial stereotyping, Orientalism, primitivism, essentialism, and universalism. 
628:The contemporary arts of Africa are framed by urbanization and global mobility. This course examines how artists examine, reflect on, and express visually experiences of these conditions. 
629:An exploration of the wide field of American art and visual culture inspired by the spaces and social life of the modern city. 154, 155, 156, 157, 158, 159, 160, or 261; permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisite. 
630:This course explores intersection of art and economics from the 18th century to the present through themes such as value, markets, counterfeiting, and circulation. It examines money as a visual artifact and artworks that engage with monetary questions in the context of art history and Western economic theory. 
631:This course introduces the art and architecture of medieval Islamic Spain and North Africa between the eighth and 16th centuries. students lacking the prerequisite. 
632:This course explores the development, urban forms, and social structures of some of the major cities of the medieval Islamic lands. students lacking the prerequisite. 
633:Required preparation, any intermediate art history course or permission of the instructor. A study of theoretical issues central to the understanding of trends in modern art (e.g., modernism, the avant-garde, formalism originality). 
634:Permission of the instructor. This course will examine strategies of critique in contemporary art. Organized thematically, it focuses on the tactics employed by artists who address political, social, or cultural issues through their work. 
635:Addresses select issues that have gained or re-gained prominence in today's art world, for example globalization, training, the market, and the nature of the "contemporary. 
636:Permission of the instructor. Works in the Ackland Museum's collection will be studied directly as a means of training the eye and exploring the technical and aesthetic issues raised by art objects. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
637:Required preparation, any intermediate art history course or permission of the instructor. Provides an historical overview of museums. Serves as an introduction to many of the theoretical issues museums face including: ethics, audiences, the role of museums in society, exhibiting dilemmas. 
638:Required preparation, one 100-level art history course and one 200- to 399-level art history course. An experiential learning opportunity in independent and original research on a topic or in a field of the student's choosing under the close direction of a faculty supervisor. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
639:Required preparation, any intermediate art history course or permission of the instructor. This course explores the history of early modern collecting, encompassing scholars' and merchants' "study rooms," aristocrats' menageries, humanists' "sculpture gardens," and princely cabinets of wonders. 
640:Survey of the art, architecture, and archaeology of the Italian peninsula before the Roman Republic, focusing primarily on Villanovan and Etruscan material culture and its relationship to contemporary cultural influences and crosscurrents in the Mediterranean in the first millennium BCE. 
641:Permission of the instructor. Independent research directed by a faculty member leading to an honors thesis. 
642:Permission of the instructor. Independent research directed by a faculty member leading to an honors thesis. 
643:Class examines how to advance and sustain artistic production, focusing not only on being a successful artist, but also on the importance of creativity and hard work in any successful venture. 
644:Class examines how to advance and sustain artistic production, focusing not only on being a successful artist, but also on the importance of creativity and hard work in any successful venture. 
645:A mixed media course investigating visual storytelling. 
646:The book as a structural format for expression has a long history in visual arts. We will address aspects of the book that function visually, considering both design and content. 
647:This class will study one of the lesser considered, but most intriguing, visual components: the element of time. 
648:This class looks at the theory and practice of telling stories through photographs. 
649:This course will investigate how photography is inextricably entwined in our lives and histories. 
650:This class will investigate the idea of personal histories in visual art. As a studio class, the course will be organized around several art making projects. As a catalyst to our own art making, we will explore the idea of personal history and memory through readings, as well as looking at contemporary artists whose work functions in an autobiographical framework. 
651:Content varies by semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
652:This course will explore concepts of making art in both practice and in theory. Driven by foundational theoretical texts that have influenced 20th- century art and culture, the course explores art as content and meaning, and art's relationship to form, everyday life, and visual culture. 
653:Studio course investigates concepts and strategies of two-dimensional image making. Introduces design elements of visual language (line, shape, value, texture, color). Considers the cultural codes that accompany visual information and how they combine with organizational structures to determine a variety of effects, influence responses, and inform meaning. Foundation requirement for studio majors 
654:Working out of an observational tradition, this course provides an introduction to the concepts and techniques of drawing. Paying attention to both representation and interpretation, the course is designed to develop fundamental skills, aesthetic sensibility, analytical capacity, and creative problem-solving in two-dimensional media. 
655:Focusing on creative digital photography, this course provides an introduction to the concepts and techniques of digital imagery and lens- based media. Includes methods of interpretation, analysis of images, scanning, retouching, color correction, basic composition, and inkjet printing. 
656:Focusing on creative digital photography, this course provides an introduction to the concepts and techniques of digital imagery and lens- based media. Includes methods of interpretation, analysis of images, scanning, retouching, color correction, basic composition, and inkjet printing. 
657:This foundation course introduces concepts and techniques of temporal art making. Through projects designed to develop an understanding of the creative language unique to digital media, students will learn various software programs and basic digital strategies to realize time-based works of art. Foundation requirement for studio majors. 
658:Basic computer skills required. This course investigates the emergence of Web, interactive, and mobile technologies as artistic tools, communication technologies, and cultural phenomena. Students will design and produce interactive Web sites. The course covers principles of Web-based programming and design via HTML and CSS. 
659:This course explores the intricacies of color theory with regard to perception, systems, and application in visual art. Further, the course considers color as subject and concept in contemporary art. 
660:This course will introduce the fundamentals of painting and various painting techniques through studio lab activity, lectures, demonstrations, and discussions. The course intends to guide students through developing their technical, formal, conceptual, and creative sensibilities to the painting process. 
661:Introduction to the techniques of three-dimensional thought and process through the application of the various sculpture media. students lacking the prerequisite. 
662:In this intermediate-level class students expand on video production strategies and concepts such as lighting theory, location sound recording, montage, and sound design while developing individual and collaborative processes for moving image production. students lacking the prerequisite. 
663:Introduction to four basic approaches to printmaking: intaglio, relief, planographic, and stencil processes. Students will explore creative strategies unique to the printed process. for students lacking the prerequisite. 
664:An investigation of clay as a sculptural medium; developing technical skills, aesthetic awareness, and historical perspective. students lacking the prerequisite. 
665:Permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisite. Through the study of anatomy and observation of the human form, students develop the ability to create powerful, realistic figure drawings. Fundamental skills and concepts include expressive use of line, value, weight, and volume plus classical techniques in shading, gesture, sighting, and composition. 
666:This class examines wood sculpture from both a technical and intuitive perspective. Students are taught woodworking skills and are then encouraged to use these skills to discover their creative potential. 
667:Recommended preparation, ARTS 104 and/or ARTS 105. An intermediate studio course focused on creating stencil-based print images. Students explore a range of technical approaches and will investigate art making concepts specific to screen printing as well as the intersections of screen printing with other two-dimensional art forms. students lacking the prerequisite. 
668:This class examines metal sculpture from both a technical and intuitive perspective. Students are taught metalworking skills and are then encouraged to use these skills to discover their creative potential. 
669:This course will be organized around four art making/art building projects, culminating in a class presentation of a multimedia phantasmagoria. Students will research early light/shadow, pre-cinema techniques, hauntings/horror and artists whose work is influenced by these tropes. We will work with Maker's Spaces to produce components for this course. 
670:Required preparation, any introductory studio art course or permission of the instructor. Selected topics in studio art . Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
671:Required for studio art majors with at least 15 hours of course work in the major. This class addresses questions of artistic identity and professional development for the art major. 
672:This course aims to continue guiding painting students through developing sensibilities to paint handling, color, composition, and spatial design, with an emphasis on experimentation. Students will develop their work in context to themes that are significant in painting history, relevant to contemporary art, and their personal lens. 
673:Continuation of ARTS 203. 
674:Continuation of ARTS 105. 
675:Continuation of ARTS 213. 
676:This class builds on predominantly perceptually based concepts of basic drawing and introduces abstraction, interpretive, and conceptual drawing strategies. Class assignments develop understanding of the language of drawing and provide a foundation that aims to support independent investigation and personal approaches to drawing's unique capabilities. 
677:From Dada to ArtBrut to Mix-tape, this course experiments with assemblage (accumulations of things forming a new whole) and destruction (taking apart and reconfiguring a thing). This course addresses issues of collage as both object and action, playing in the intersection of experimental theatre and design of mass-produced objects. 
678:Lithography is an intermediate printmaking class. The course provides basic technical introduction to stone and plate lithography. Students will investigate artistic strategies to forge visual literacy in print media. students lacking the prerequisite. 
679:This studio course will explore the vast visual language of abstract painting. Students will examine abstraction through creating paintings within a historical, visual, and cultural framework, and acquire context about the emergence and persistence of painted abstraction. 
680:How does one tell a story in the form of a drawing? This class will investigate narrative composition as a genre using diverse and analytical methods in drawing. From life drawing sessions to exercises in diverse environments and public events. 
681:This course examines the practical and theoretical issues of portraiture. Students will learn technical skills and conceptual strategies to engage with issues of representation and notions of identity. We will explore the history of the photographic portraiture as well as work of contemporary portrait artists working in a post-modern age. 
682:Prerequsite, ARTS 208. This course continues an investigation of print techniques and concepts. Projects develop an understanding of print strategies, focusing on the affordances of processes unique to printmaking. This approach positions traditional techniques as a point of departure for seeking an expanded definition of printmaking. 
683:Required preparation, any intermediate studio art course or permission of the instructor. Selected topics in studio art. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
684:How do curators assist the navigation of contemporary art? This course addresses this question and others concerning the history, trends, personalities, and sites involved in contemporary art exhibition. The class will mount actual exhibitions informed by readings and interaction with curators, artists, and stage performances. 
685:This course focuses on the historically rich practice of painting, and is designed to guide the advanced painting student through the research, conceptual, aesthetic, and technical components of a comprehensive studio practice, and developing and maintaining a studio work ethic. students lacking the prerequisite. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
686:Continuation of ARTS 303. May be repeated for credit. students lacking the prerequisite. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
687:This studio class explores public art from historical and critical perspective. Students will propose and create works of public art. Opportunities to implement projects will be explored through the Department of Art and other resources. instructor for students lacking the prerequisite. 
688:Continuation of ARTS 313. May be repeated for credit. students lacking the prerequisite. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
689:An advanced photography course for students interested in contemporary photographic practices, critical theory, art history, and experimental processes: theory and practice, formal and conceptual investigations, and historical and contemporary strategies will all be given equal attention. 
690:An introduction to the creative and technical processes in producing video art. Students will shoot and edit their own independent video projects. Some class time will be devoted to viewing video art and other media-based work. students lacking the prerequisite. 
691:Cultural production and practice, theory, and criticism. Pursuit of individual visual projects, formally and conceptually, through theoretical, poetic, art historical, and autobiographical texts, critiques, collaboration, and discussion using all media. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
692:This course is appropriate for students who have had a minimum of three semesters of prior printmaking experience. Students submit a proposal outlining technical and artistic goals for the semester. permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
693:Familiarity with basic computer skills and drawing required. Explores concepts and techniques of two-dimensional animation, including conceptualization with storyboards, pencil testing and timing animation, animating sequences with Photoshop, experimenting with color and compositing using After Effects. Emphasis placed on developing ideas though experimental practices, combining traditional and digital animation processes. 
694:Required preparation, one additional two-dimensional studio course (drawing, photography, or printmaking). Defining the book as a "multiple and sequential picture plane," this course considers a range of traditional approaches and conceptual departures of the book as a format for creative expression. 
695:Required preparation, any intermediate studio art course or permission of the instructor. Advanced consideration of selected topics in studio art. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
696:Recommended for juniors or seniors. Allows studio art majors to pursue unpaid practicums or internships for credit. Examples include working as a studio assistant or working in art-related fields, such as galleries, design firms, architectural firms, and nonprofit arts organizations. Work undertaken must comply with Federal criteria governing unpaid internships. 
697:This research-intensive course is designed for B.F.A. students to define and execute a focused body of work or a single large project over the course of a semester. Work may be pursued individually or in collaborative teams. Required for B.F.A. studio art majors. B.A. studio art majors may seek permission from the instructor. 
698:Restricted to senior studio art majors. This course is the capstone course for the studio art major. Topics covered include issues of professional development, curatorial practice, and presentation of works of art in exhibition. The culminating project is mounting the Senior Exhibition. 
699:May be repeated for credit. students lacking the prerequisite. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
700:The primary goals of this class are to introduce three-dimensional computer modeling and animation in Maya. The course covers a broad range of creative applications including special effects, compositing with video, and motion graphics. Students will produce a short three- dimensional animation as their final project. 
701:Permission of the instructor. For students wishing to pursue additional media or thematic study beyond the advanced level. Students register with section numbers designated for faculty. May be repeated for credit. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
702:Explores interactive media through creative projects that include sound, video, and graphic elements. Technical information will serve the broader goal of understanding the aesthetics and critical issues of interactive media. 
703:Permission of the department. ARTS 691H is designed to enable studio art majors to pursue serious and substantial work. In addition to working with the instructor of record for ARTS 499/691H, students work under the supervision of an individual thesis advisor and committee. 
704:ARTS 692H is taught concurrently with and by the instructor for ARTS 500. In addition to the classroom component, students continue to work with an individual thesis advisor and committee. Successful completion of ARTS 692H allows students to graduate with honors or highest honors. 
705:Examines the cultural practice and meanings of food, cooking, eating, and drinking through Chinese literature and cinema. Main themes include food and rituals, gourmandism and poetic taste, cannibalism and the grotesque, and hunger and revolution. 
706:An introduction to Israeli popular culture, with a transnational and interdisciplinary frame. Focusing on Israeli popular music, embarking on a journey through different genres that represent the cultural richness developed since Zionism and going through the last two centuries, developing along the way a broad understanding of Israeli society. 
707:Considers how American popular culture has portrayed Japanese women since the 1860s, asking what this reveals about changing American ideas of race, gender, and national identity. 
708:Film, history, novels, and theater are used to explore the rich, complex kung-fu tradition in Chinese culture from ancient to modern times, as well as its appropriation in foreign films. 
709:Compares the rhetoric of equality between the sexes presented by late Qing, May Fourth, and communist thinkers to perspectives on gender and society by 20th-century Chinese women writers. 
710:Compares the rhetoric of equality between the sexes presented by late Qing, May Fourth, and communist thinkers to perspectives on gender and society by 20th-century Chinese women writers. 
711:Examines how the East is constructed as the Orient in different historical periods: 19th-century European colonialism, 1950s to 1960s Hollywood films, contemporary Japanese animation, and the current global war on terrorism. 
712:Course explores diverse tales of Madame Butterfly from Puccini's famous opera to productions of M. Butterfly and Miss Saigon, asking questions about constructions of race, gender, nation, travel, and romance. 
713:Course explores diverse tales of Madame Butterfly from Puccini's famous opera to productions of M. Butterfly and Miss Saigon, asking questions about constructions of race, gender, nation, travel, and romance. 
714:Explores different examples of broadcast and digital media (music videos, soap operas and reality shows, radio, and the Internet) with respect to history, gender, sexuality, globalization, religion, regionalism, and activism. 
715:The course explores selected themes and case studies pertinent to culture and society in modern Israel, with emphasis on debates about "Israeliness" in various cultural and social arenas. 
716:This seminar explores the history of tea culture in Japan, particularly the emergence in the 16th and 17th centuries of the ritualized practice often referred to in English as the "tea ceremony" (chanoyu). Practicioners included merchants, Buddhist monks, warlords, European Jesuits, and professional tea masters. 
717:Introduces students to photography in the Arab world, including colonial and Orientalist photography, indigenous studio and portrait photography, the ethics of photographing disasters, art photography, and photography and revolutions. 
718:This course will introduce students to the main works and themes in early Chinese thought from the earliest recorded writings down to the Qin unification in 221 BCE. 
719:This seminar explores the historical and political context of the revolution, its representation in the West, the role of social media in events, and the culture that has emerged from it. 
720:Explores fashion's role in constructing class, gender, and nationhood in Japan, and appreciation of Japanese culture abroad through adaptation of Japanese fashions. 
721:Explores fashion's role in constructing class, gender, and nationhood in Japan, and appreciation of Japanese culture abroad through adaptation of Japanese fashions. 
722:This course examines the dynamics of power and music in the Arab world in the last century. It explores the relationship between music, composers, and listeners in times of independence wars, national victory, and uprising. 
723:Special topics course. Content will vary each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
724:Special topics course. Content will vary each semester. 
725:This course will examine the cultural identity of the country of Iran and its people, from its roots in antiquity to the modern day. Students develop familiarity with cultural facts of life and traditions that have made Iran a significant and distinctive cultural arena for more than 3,000 years. 
726:The history of Southeast Asia from prehistory to "high imperialism." Long- term political, economic, social, and religious developments, including Indianization, the impact of China, and the first contacts with Europeans. 
727:Comparative colonialism, nationalism, revolution, and independence movements. Topics include Indonesia and the Dutch, Indochina under French rule, United States involvement in the Philippines and Vietnam, communist and peasant movements, Cambodian revolution. 
728:Chinese history from its beginnings to the present, organized around the central theme of how the identity of China and 'Chineseness' was created. 
729:Comparative and interdisciplinary introduction to China and Japan in the 19th and 20th centuries, focusing on impact of the West, nation building, industrialization, and evolution of mass society. 
730:An introduction to major political, religious, social, and cultural events from 3500 BCE to 1750 CE with a focus on Hindu, Muslim, and Buddhist groups before British colonial rule. 
731:This course is an introduction to modern India, Pakistan, and Bangladesh. We will investigate major political, social, economic, and cultural issues from 1750 to the present. 
732:A broad, comprehensive, and interdisciplinary introduction to the traditional civilization of the Muslim world. Students may not receive credit for both HIST 138/ASIA 138 and ASIA 180/RELI 180. 
733:A broad interdisciplinary survey of the later Islamic empires since the 15th century and their successor societies in the modern Muslim world. Students may not receive credit for both ASIA 139/HIST 139 and ASIA 181/RELI 181 
734:The course introduces Asia's historical, cultural, and political diversity by examining some of the global forces that have shaped Asian societies (e.g., colonialism, orientalism, and neoliberalism). 
735:This course is an introduction to the societies of Southeast Asia through literature. Background materials and films will supplement the comparative study of traditional works, novels, short stories, and poems. 
736:Readings from diverse disciplines illuminate the broad features of South Asia throughout history. Topics include political history and social thought, including gender and caste, and religious and imaginative literature. 
737:An introductory survey of the visual arts of South Asia. 
738:This course introduces the arts of the Islamic lands from the seventh- century rise of the Umayyad dynasty of Syria to the 16th-century expansion of the Ottoman Empire. 
739:This course introduces the arts of the Islamic lands from the seventh- century rise of the Umayyad dynasty of Syria to the 16th-century expansion of the Ottoman Empire. 
740:This course traces the history of art and architecture in premodern East Asia, emphasizing ideas and ways of seeing and representing that were common or different across East Asia. 
741:This course examines the connection between poetry and performance in the context of Hindi-Urdu literature, particularly the genres of Sufi poetry (qawwali), Bhakti poetry, and the Ghazal. 
742:This course provides a comprehensive overview of the music of South Asia, focusing on India, Pakistan, and Bangladesh. The entire spectrum of musical genres will be covered. 
743:A broad, comprehensive, and interdisciplinary introduction to the traditional civilization of the Muslim world. Students may not receive credit for both RELI 180/ASIA 180 and ASIA 138/HIST 138. 
744:This course surveys important developments in modern Muslim societies since the 16th century and up to the present. Topics covered include Muslim experiences with colonialism and nationalism, modernist reform movements, fundamentalism, women's activism and changes in Qur'an interpretation, Islamic law, and religious practice. Students may not receive credit for both RELI 181/ASIA 181 and ASIA 139/HIST 139. 
745:An introduction to major religions of South Asia and East Asia, such as Hinduism, Sikhism, Buddhism, Confucianism, Daoism, and Shinto. 
746:This course will offer students an opportunity to study selected, socially engaged Iranian films. By watching, contextualizing, and discussing films that explore cultural and historical issues affecting modern-day Iran, we will discover themes of politics, religion, gender, class, and history. 
747:An analysis of how historical interactions between Hinduism and Islam have inspired the creation of philosophies and great works of literature and art that continue to inform Indian society today. 
748:The history, cultures, and societies of South Asia are explored through 'virtual visits' to various cities, towns, and villages of the region. An interdisciplinary approach will be employed. 
749:The course explores major periods and trends in Israeli cinema. Focus is given to issues pertaining to gender, ethnicity, and the construction of national identity. 
750:The course explores major periods and trends in Israeli cinema. Focus is given to issues pertaining to gender, ethnicity, and the construction of national identity. 
751:The study and comparison of contemporary Southeast Asian performance genres (music, theatre, dance, ritual) in historical and cultural contexts. 
752:This course, taught in a study abroad program in Asia, will focus on topics related to Asian literature. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
753:This course, taught in a study abroad program in Asia, will focus on topics related to Asian fine arts. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
754:This course, taught in a study abroad program in Asia, will examine Asian society from a social science perspective. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
755:This course, taught in a study abroad program in Asia, will focus on topics related to Asian history. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
756:Introduces the art and architecture of the caliphal period, concentrating on the seventh through 12th centuries (the "classical" period of Islamic art). 
757:This course examines popular culture in Southeast Asia as a response to colonialism, nationalism, modernization, the state, and globalization. Topics include theater, film, pop songs, television, rituals, and the Internet. 
758:Comparative and interdisciplinary study of feasting and its philosophical underpinnings, with special attention to the multiple purposes and nuances of food and feasting in literature, film, and the visual arts. 
759:Comparative and interdisciplinary study of feasting and its philosophical underpinnings, with special attention to the multiple purposes and nuances of food and feasting in literature, film, and the visual arts. 
760:Examines Western views of India and Indian culture and how these views differ from the way Indians in India and Indian immigrants in the West understand themselves and express their relationship to India through novels and travelogues. 
761:Focus on how modern Indian writers and filmmakers have represented the creation of an Indian national identity through such historical periods as British colonialism, the Rebellion of 1857, the Indian Independence Movement, the Partition, and the eras of national integration and globalization. 
762:Spatial structure of population, urbanization, agriculture, industrialization, and regional links in China, Japan, and Korea. (Regional) 
763:Required preparation, any introductory art history course or permission of the instructor. This course is an introduction to the visual culture of early and medieval India. 
764:Introduces students to the geography of South Asia, including an overview of the physical environment, cultural practices, and economic development. Emphasizes the political geography of South Asia and political and social processes such as nationalism and colonialism that have played a formative role in the region. 
765:Provides students with a critical understanding of the political, economic, and social dynamics of contemporary South Asia. Themes explored include the development (or lack of) democratic structures, continuing relevance of caste and religion, emergence of right wing movements, contesting representations of the past, and the prospects and challenges confronting the region. 
766:Required preparation, any introductory art history course or permission of the instructor. This course explores the visual culture patronized by the Mughal dynasty in India from the 11th to the 17th centuries. 
767:History of Iraq from ancient times to the present. 
768:This course introduces students to the recent history of the Middle East, including a comparison of the Middle East to the United States. 
769:Explores the conflict over Palestine during the last 100 years. Surveys the development of competing nationalisms, the contest for resources and political control that led to the partition of the region, the war that established a Jewish state, and the subsequent struggles between conflicting groups for land and independence. 
770:An examination of the origins of the Pacific War, the course of this bitter and momentous conflict, and its complex legacy for both Asia and the United States. 
771:This course explores the evolution of China as a geopolitical entity from global perspectives, 1350 to the present. 
772:An examination of the development of Buddhism after its importation to East Asia. 
773:This course explores the Theravada school of Buddhism and themes in the social, cultural, and political lives of the Theravada Buddhist countries of Southeast Asia and Sri Lanka. 
774:Covering the period from 1600 to 1900, this course examines the causes and impact of the Meiji Restoration of 1868, which marked the start of modern Japan. 
775:Topics include the Japanese Empire, the road to the Pacific War, defeat, the Allied occupation, Japan's recovery from war, and development into a democracy and the world's second largest economy. 
776:Examines the diverse beliefs, practices, and cultures associated with Buddhism in the Himalayan regions of India, Nepal, and Tibet. Topics include Buddhism's development and spread, the cultural dynamics of Himalayan societies, monasticism, folk religion, revivalism, tourism, gender, globalization, and the role of the state in shaping Buddhist life and culture. 
777:Historical survey of the major premodern religious traditions in Japan: Shinto, Buddhism, Shugendo, and Christianity. 
778:Survey of the major religious traditions in modern and contemporary Japan: Shinto, Buddhism, and the New Religions. 
779:The past in Southeast Asia's present, focusing on global, national, and local processes; individual and collective memory; and the legacies of violent death. 
780:Cross-cultural definitions of heroism, individualism, and authority in film and fiction, with emphasis on tales or images that have been translated across cultures. Includes films of Ford, Kurosawa, and Visconti. 
781:Cross-cultural definitions of heroism, individualism, and authority in film and fiction, with emphasis on tales or images that have been translated across cultures. Includes films of Ford, Kurosawa, and Visconti. 
782:Authors' use of narrative techniques to create the separation between heroines and their fictional societies and sometimes also to alienate readers from the heroines. Austen, Flaubert, Ibsen, Arishima, Tanizaki, Abe. 
783:Centered on the story of the Hindu god Rama, this course explores Valmiki's Ramayana, alternate versions of the story, its performance in theater, and its role in politics. Students will work outside of class to perform in a theatrical event called Ramlila, open to the public. Students may not receive credit for both ASIA 332 and ASIA 382. 
784:This course offers an introduction to the Sanskrit Mahabharata as well as modern retellings of the epic in contemporary literature, film, and theater of India. Students will work outside to class to stage a modern play based on the Mahabharata, open to the public. Students may not receive credit for both ASIA 333 and ASIA 383. 
785:Historical introduction to Chinese religions: Confucianism, Daoism, Buddhism, and folk religion. 
786:Which of the following would you consider potentially political issues: celibacy; semen retention; body-building; depiction of gods/goddesses; or bomb making? Well, they all are. This course examines debates over sex, religion, and violence that constituted a key part of revolutionary thought and anti-colonial struggles in modern South Asia. 
787:What happened when the British carved Pakistan out of the Muslim- dominated corners of India? Readings and films focus on the causes and consequences of this event, the Partition of India. 
788:Centered on the story of the Hindu god Rama, this course explores Valmiki's Ramayana, alternate versions of the story, its performance in theatre, and its role in politics. Students may not receive credit for both ASIA 332 and ASIA 382. 
789:This course offers an introduction to the Sanskrit Mahabharata as well as modern retellings of the epic in contemporary literature, film, and theatre of India. Students may not receive credit for both ASIA 333 and ASIA 383. 
790:The course addresses the history and sociology of Asian immigration and experience in the United States, as well as the formation of diasporic identities among Asian Americans. 
791:This course is designed to examine Jewish life in Arab lands in the last century by examining culture, language, and the communal life that the Arab-Jews shared with their neighbors. 
792:This course will explore contemporary Asian American literature and theory and will examine how Asian American literature fits into, yet extends beyond, the canon of American literature. 
793:How does globalization affect religious life? How do historical, cultural, and religious traditions mediate the experience of globalization in particular locales? This course analyzes the forces and practices associated with political-economic and cultural globalization in Southeast Asia and explores the religious transformations and innovations that these processes have inspired. 
794:Permission of the instructor. When offered, the topic will vary with the instructor. The class will be limited to a seminar size. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
795:Focuses on the various collaborations, exchanges, and mutual enrichment between Israelis and Palestinians in the realm of culture, particularly literature and cinema. These connections include language (Israeli Jewish authors writing in Arabic and Palestinian writers who choose Hebrew as their language of expression), collaborating in filmmaking, and joint educational initiatives. 
796:The formation and transformation of values, identities, and expressive forms in Southeast Asia in response to forms of power. Emphasis on the impact of colonialism, the nation-state, and globalization. 
797:This course explores the social, cultural, political, and economic contexts in which films are made and exhibited and focuses on shared intra- regional cinematic trends pertaining to discourse, aesthetics, and production. 
798:A study of intercultural interaction and interreligious encounter focusing on Asian religions in America, 1784 to the present. 
799:Examines gender, space, and place relationships in the modern Middle East. Investigates shifting gender geographies of colonialism, nationalism, modernization, and globalization in this region. (GHA) 
800:An examination of the history, society, and culture of modern Tibet and its imagination in the context of international politics and from a multidisciplinary perspective. 
801:Required preparation, any intermediate art history course or permission of the instructor. This thematic course explores how objects and monuments are viewed, experienced, and used in a ritual context in South Asia. 
802:This course focuses on palaces, gardens, and court cultures beginning with the eighth-century Umayyad period and ending with the 16th-century reigns of the Mughal, Safavid, and Ottoman dynasties. students lacking the prerequisite. 
803:This course examines visual materials, including those from fine arts, commerce, popular culture, political propaganda, avant-garde movements, etc., produced in modern and contemporary China as an important means of defining China's self-identity in the modern and global world. 
804:This course provides an in-depth examination of the behavioral principles and performances of five core Asian economic systems: Japan, China, Taiwan/South Korea, North Korea and Thailand. 
805:The uses of literary silence for purposes such as protest, civility, joy, oppression, nihilism, awe, or crisis of representation. Authors include Sterne, Goethe, Austen, Kawabata, Soseki, Oe, Toson, Camus, Mann. 
806:The study of the influence of Western texts upon Japanese authors and the influence of conceptions of "the East" upon Western writers. Goldsmith, Voltaire, Soseki, Sterne, Arishima, Ibsen, Yoshimoto, Ishiguro. 
807:Changing understandings of nature across time and cultures, especially with regard to its human manipulation and as portrayed in novels of Japan and Europe. Rousseau, Goethe, Austen, Abe, Mishima. 
808:This course explores the role that mountains and pilgrimage have played in Japanese cosmology and how they relate to methodology of studying place and space. 
809:This course discusses the development of Shinto in Japanese history and covers themes such as myths, syncretism, sacred sites, iconography, nativism, religion and the state, and historiography. 
810:Permission of the instructor. This course examines the cultural construction of animals in Japanese myth, folklore, and religion. 
811:The course topic will vary with the instructor. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 1 total completions. 
812:Permission of the department. For the student who wishes to create and pursue a project in Asian studies under the supervision of a selected instructor. Course is limited to three credit hours per semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
813:This course will focus on revolutionary change in the Middle East during the last century, emphasizing internal social, economic, and political conditions as well as international contexts. 
814:Explores the lives of women in the Middle East and how they have changed over time. Focus will change each year. 
815:This course explores changing interactions between the Middle East and the West, including trade, warfare, scientific exchange, and imperialism, and ends with an analysis of contemporary relations in light of the legacy of the past. 
816:This course is intended as a broad overview of Southeast Asian economic history from premodern times to the present day. 
817:Examines struggles to define culture and the nation in 20th-century China in domains like popular culture, museums, traditional medicine, fiction, film, ethnic group politics, and biography and autobiography. 
818:This course traces the fascinating history of material, cultural, and theological exchanges and conflicts between individuals belonging to two of the world's major religions: Hinduism and Islam. Throughout the course we will also analyze how modern commentators have selectively used the past to inform their understandings of the present. 
819:An analysis of the roles of women and men in Indian societies from the early to the modern periods. Topics include the cultural construction of gender and sexuality; beauty and bodily practices; gender and religion; gender and politics; race, imperialism, and gender. 
820:This course examines the histories, representations, and cultural perceptions surrounding bandits and rebels in modern India. The representations of bandits and rebels are studied in the light of the emergence of nationalism, shifting notions of gender and masculinity, race relations, and emergence of capitalist structures. 
821:This course introduces the art and architecture of medieval Islamic Spain and North Africa between the eighth and 16th centuries. students lacking the prerequisite. 
822:A wide-ranging exploration of America's longest war, from 19th-century origins to 1990s legacies, from village battlegrounds to the Cold War context, from national leadership to popular participation and impact. 
823:Explores the indigenous Chinese sciences and the cosmological ideas that informed them. Topics include astronomy, divination, medicine, fengshui, and political and literary theory. Chinese sources in translation are emphasized. 
824:Examination of the histories, social organization, and cultures of the Chinese diasporas in the Asia Pacific region, focusing on contemporary issues in the cultural politics and identities of "overseas Chinese. 
825:Permission of the instructor. A survey of Islamic mysticism, its sources in the Qur'an and the Prophet Muhammad, and its literary, cultural, and social deployment in Arab, Persian, Indic, and Turkish regions. 
826:A survey of the formation of Islamic traditions in the subcontinent from the eighth century to the present, with emphasis on religion and politics, the role of Sufism, types of popular religion, and questions of Islamic identity. 
827:Iran from the rise of the Safavid empire to the Islamic Republic. Topics include Shi'ism, politics, intellectual and sectarian movements, encounters with colonialism, art and architecture, music, literature. 
828:A nontheological approach to the Qur'an as a literary text, emphasizing its history, form, style, and interpretation. 
829:The religious landscape and built environments of Japan. Attention to palace, courtyard, and teahouse architecture and gardens, with emphasis on Shinto shrines and the Zen Buddhist temple and garden. 
830:Permission of the instructor. Study of selected religious, literary, and historical texts in Arabic, Persian, or Urdu. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
831:Presents recent anthropological research on the People's Republic of China. In addition to social sciences sources, fictional genres are used to explore the particular modernity of Chinese society and culture. 
832:Permission of the department. Required for honors students in Asian studies. 
833:Permission of the department. Required for honors students in Asian studies. 
834:Introduction to the cultures of the Arab world and of the Arabs in diasporas: art, literature, film, music, dance, food, history, religion, folklore, etc. 
835:Introduces the rich literary heritage of the Arabic language from pre- Islamic to modern times and covers major genres. Emphasis on critical thinking, literary analysis, and academic writing. 
836:This course examines key questions that animated Arab intellectuals in the past century and the diverse intellectual and political traditions - such as Liberalism, Arab Nationalism, and Marxism - that they engaged with. We will read theoretical treatises, newspaper articles, political party tracts, and interviews with leading thinkers and politicians. 
837:Can art, film, and literature undo cultural, social, and political divisions created by borders and walls in the Arab world? Students may not receive credit for both ARAB 337 and ARAB 338. 
838:A service-learning, study abroad course focusing on women and leadership in the Arab world. Topics include women and religion, family, community and selfhood, citizenship and legal rights, and politics. 
839:Course treats a variety of themes and genres of Arabic literature from the mid-20th century to the present. 
840:Examines alternative interpretations of Arab history, culture, and identity that challenge our understanding of contemporary Arab cultures. Traces how Arab writers and filmmakers simultaneously engage and subvert questions of identity and representation. 
841:Explores how Palestine is portrayed in writings, films, and other creative works and how Palestinian portrayals of homeland affect others' perceptions of the Palestinian-Israeli conflict and the Arab World. 
842:Introduction to history of Arab cinema from 1920s to present. Covers film industries in various regions of the Arab world and transnational Arab film. All materials and discussion in English. 
843:We will focus on anthropological and historical works that unearth veins of research on the Arab world whose horizons transcend the frontiers of nation-states and the boundaries of religious traditions. We will read works which explore lives, ideas, practices, and institutions through situating them within global processes. 
844:This course probes the different conceptualizations of Arab modernity beginning from the colonial era and ending with the contemporary critiques of modernity in history, literature, and cinema. 
845:A course designed to introduce students to the Chinese world of past and present. Chinese civilization is explored from a variety of perspectives: political, social, cultural, intellectual, and economic. 
846:A survey of Chinese literature from the classical period to the end of the T'ang dynasty (906 CE). 
847:A survey of Chinese literature from the Sung Dynasty to 1949. 
848:This course offers students an opportunity to learn the aesthetics, culture, and history of qin, and study the music through learning the beginning levels of qin pieces. 
849:This course uses select feature and documentary films, supplemented by texts of critical and creative literature, to introduce students to a broad overview of modern China since the mid-19th century, focusing on the major events that have shaped a turbulent course of decline, revolution, and resurgence. 
850:This course shows how Chinese historical legends define and transmit the values, concepts, figures of speech, and modes of behavior that constitute Chinese culture. 
851:Chinese language in social, cultural, historical, and political contexts in China. Topics include basic linguistic features, dialects, writing, literacy, and language reform in the era of modernization and globalization. 
852:This course explores the idea of outlaws as hero in the 16th-century kung-fu novel Outlaws of the Marsh and its influence on modern kung-fu and gangster films. 
853:The rise of China has altered the economic and political order of the post-Cold War world. This course examines the historical context and trajectory of China's rise, its internal dynamics, and the challenges it poses to the rest of the world. 
854:Through analysis of the role movies play in the formation of popular perceptions of the past, this course provides an introduction to the history of the Qin and Han dynasties. 
855:For second-language Chinese learners without calligraphy experience. Includes cultural, historical, and linguistic knowledge about Chinese calligraphy; basic brush writing skills; structure and composition of Chinese characters; how to assemble a calligraphy artwork. Lecture followed by studio session of writing practice. Taught in English and Chinese. 
856:Introduces students to Chinese and Taiwanese cultural understandings of human relations to the natural environment. Analyzes classical and modern environmental literature (poetry, essays, fiction, and philosophy) and evaluates how contemporary building practices, governmental policies, and green technologies may be influenced by diverse Chinese philosophical traditions. 
857:This course introduces traditional Chinese theater from its earliest development to modern times by examining the interrelation of its elements--music, dance, poetry, and illustration--with performance footage, visual art, and dramatic texts. 
858:This course examines illustration as both a form of literary criticism and a narrative tradition in its own right. 
859:By exploring intersections of the narrative and the normative, this course considers relations between text, ethics, and everyday life in 20th-century China by reading texts on aesthetics. 
860:This course analyzes historical changes of the city through examining the individual, national, and global identity of Shanghai, Beijing, Taipei, and Hong Kong as reflected in their histories, politics, built environment, ethos, language, and culture. 
861:This course explores zither as a cultural locus of traditional China and contemplates the relations between musical and poetic expressions, abstract musical and visual representation, and word and image. 
862:Selected topics in Chinese poetry concentrating on one period or one genre. 
863:Selected topics in Chinese fiction, historical writing, and prose belles lettres, concentrating on one period or one genre. 
864:This course analyzes contemporary Chinese urban art, architecture, cinema, and fiction to elucidate dynamics between the built environment and subjectivity. Students analyze how social, economic, and political factors shape environments, and debate whether new urban spaces create social conflict or new civil possibilities. 
865:A study of Chinese literature since 1977, its historical context in the New Era of reform, and influences from modern Western literature. 
866:A focus on stories, poems, essays, paintings, and films in which Jerusalem and its people figure prominently. Course will address the multi-faceted and often schizophrenic depiction of the city. 
867:Employing Zionist and post- and anti-Zionist documents, treatises, and mostly literary and cinematic texts, this class will focus on the relations between language, Jewish-Israeli identity, and the notion of homeland. 
868:Tokyo, Japan, became the center of global pornographic culture after the United States occupation ended in 1952. This course will use film, animation, and historical texts to try to understand how and why this happened. Moreover, we will identify how this phenomenon impacted the lives of Japanese men and women. 
869:This course will examine Japan's long 16th century. Introduces students to the history of, and historiographical problems with the representation of, some of the most fascinating characters in Japanese history, including pirates, warlords, tea masters, Jesuit monks, Buddhist priests, and peripatetic artists. 
870:This course will examine the various expressions of cultural modernity in Japan with a focus on film, literature, and popular culture from 1900 to the end of the Pacific War. 
871:Focusing on literary, philosophical, and media works, this course will first examine Japanese colonialism from 1895 to 1940 and then the postcolonial effects of that colonialism within Japan after 1945. 
872:Introduction to political, aesthetic, and intellectual works of Japan's Tokugawa period (1603-1868). Examines the characteristics of Tokugawa cultural works alongside developments in critical thought in ethics, economics, and social philosophy. 
873:Examines construction of traditional women's roles in Japan and feminist challenges to them by exploring various aspects of "women's work." Interdisciplinary readings consider law, social custom, media representations, and feminist activism. 
874:Examines Japanese literature and culture through fiction and poetry by women. Explores ideas in contemporary feminist criticism in Japan and the West as a means to read Japanese women's writing. 
875:Historical causes of violence between Hindus and Muslims in modern India. Short stories, poetry, and novels in translation are used to explore how conflicts over religious sites, religious conversion, image worship, and language contributed to a sense of conflicting religious identity. 
876:Introduces students to major periods, themes, and issues in Japanese culture and history, from prehistoric times to the present. 
877:The major genres, aesthetic concepts, and classic and modern works of Japanese literature in English translation. 
878:Explores the artistic traditions of Japanese performers known as geisha. Sources include woodblock prints, novels, photographs, academic studies, and popular Japanese and American films. 
879:This course will examine how and why Tokyo emerged as a dominant locale in global mass culture. Students will be introduced to major figures and genres in Japanese pop culture. 
880:This survey examines Japanese history from early times to the Tokugawa settlement of 1603. We will consider the archaeology of prehistoric Japan; the first great capitals at Nara and Heian; the rise of the samurai; and the tenuous medieval balance of power between the court, warrior government, and Buddhist institutions. 
881:This course focuses on Japan's early modern period (1600-1868) and explores the historicism of the artist Hon'ami Koetsu; the status system and village life; the writings of Matsuo Basho; dramatic culture and the life of the city; and the interplay between sex, gender, and commerce. 
882:Explores the major forms of classical Japanese theater (Noh, Kabuki, Bunraku), modern innovations in dramatic art, and contemporary reinventions of the classical theater in Japanese animated film. 
883:This course surveys Japanese material culture. Each week we will examine a different genre of visual or material culture in terms of its production, circulation through time and space, and modern deployment in narratives of national identity. This course includes regular engagement with the Ackland Art Museum at UNC. 
884:Explores Japanese culture and society through investigating changing concepts of the human body. Sources include anthropological and history materials, science fiction, and film. 
885:Introductory linguistic description of modern Japanese. For students of linguistics with no knowledge of Japanese and students of Japanese with no knowledge of linguistics. 
886:First semester of Arabic language instruction, comprising both Modern Standard Arabic and one spoken dialect. Coursework includes Arabic script, basic grammar and vocabulary, and culturally relevant activities. 
887:Second semester of Arabic language instruction, comprising both Modern Standard Arabic and one spoken dialect. Coursework includes expanded grammar and vocabulary and culturally relevant activities. 
888:Conversational course introducing one of the major dialects of Arabic. Only offered within the context of a University faculty-led study abroad program in the Arab world. 
889:Third semester of Arabic language instruction, comprising both Modern Standard Arabic and one spoken dialect. Coursework includes expanded grammar and vocabulary, and culturally relevant activities. 
890:Fourth semester of Arabic language instruction, comprising both Modern Standard Arabic and one spoken dialect. Coursework includes expanded grammar and vocabulary, and culturally relevant activities. 
891:Intensive grammar review and composition to improve accuracy and develop writing skills in Modern Standard Arabic. 
892:Fifth semester of Arabic language instruction, comprising both Modern Standard Arabic and one spoken dialect. Coursework includes intensive reading of a variety of texts; films, oral presentations, and writing; extensive vocabulary development. 
893:Sixth semester of Arabic language instruction, comprising both Modern Standard Arabic and one spoken dialect. Coursework includes intensive reading of a variety of texts; films, oral presentations, and writing; extensive vocabulary development. 
894:Arabic recitation offered in conjunction with selected content courses. Weekly discussion and readings in Arabic relating to attached content courses. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 8 total credits. 8 total completions. 
895:Classical and/or modern readings in Arabic and discussions in conversational Arabic, according to the students' interest. 
896:Classical and/or modern readings in Arabic and discussions in conversational Arabic, according to the students' interest. 
897:Permission of the department. For the student who wishes to create and pursue an independent project in Arabic under the supervision of a selected instructor. Maximum three credit hours per semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
898:Permission of the instructor. Study of selected religious, literary, and historical texts in Arabic, Persian, or Urdu. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
899:Introduction to Mandarin Chinese, focusing on pronunciation, simple conversation, and basic grammar. Reading and writing Chinese characters are also taught. Four hours per week. Students may not receive credit for both CHIN 101 or CHIN 102 and CHIN 111. 
900:Continued training in listening, speaking, reading, and writing on everyday topics. Four hours per week. Students may not receive credit for both CHIN 101 or CHIN 102 and CHIN 111. 
901:Designed for students who already understand and speak some Chinese; entry to this course is by placement only. The training in the course centers on reading and writing. This course is taught in Chinese. CHIN 111 does not count toward the Chinese minor. Three hours per week.Students may not receive credit for both CHIN 101 or CHIN 102 and CHIN 111. 
902:Entry to this course is by placement only. This course focuses on writing and memorizing Chinese characters. It is intended for students who have basic speaking and listening skills but do not know how to write characters. 
903:Second-year level of modern standard Chinese. Four hours per week. Students may not receive credit for both CHIN 203 or CHIN 204 and CHIN 212. 
904:Second-year level of modern standard Chinese. Four hours per week. Students may not receive credit for both CHIN 203 or CHIN 204 and CHIN 212. 
905:Designed for students who already understand and speak some Chinese. The training in the course centers on reading and writing. This course is taught in Chinese. Three hours per week. Students may not receive credit for both CHIN 203 or CHIN 204 and CHIN 212. 
906:This course emphasizes the development of conversational skills and vocabulary building with readings on everyday topics. Three hours per week. Students may not receive credit for both CHIN 305 or CHIN 306 and CHIN 313. students lacking the prerequisite. 
907:This course provides training in advanced conversation and composition with readings that cover a range of topics on Chinese society, economics, history, politics, etc. Three hours per week. Students may not receive credit for both CHIN 305 or CHIN 306 and CHIN 313. students lacking the prerequisite. 
908:This is the third course in modern written Chinese for heritage students. The material covered is comparable to the material dealt with in the third year of the regular Chinese language sequence. Three hours per week. Students may not receive credit for both CHIN 305 or CHIN 306 and CHIN 313. 
909:Readings selected from high quality authentic texts of modern Chinese, including newspaper articles and published writings of literary, cultural, and social interest relating to modern Chinese society. This course is taught in Chinese, with further training in speech and writing.Students may not receive credit for both CHIN 407 or CHIN 408 and CHIN 414. 
910:Readings selected from high quality authentic texts of modern Chinese, including newspaper articles and published writings of literary, cultural, and social interest relating to modern Chinese society. This course is taught in Chinese, with further training in speech and writing. Students may not receive credit for both CHIN 407 or CHIN 408 and CHIN 414. 
911:Fourth course for heritage students, comparable to fourth year of the regular sequence. Focuses on reading and writing skills in modern Chinese, using authentic reading materials. Three hours per week. Students may not receive credit for both CHIN 407 or CHIN 408 and CHIN 414. 
912:An overview of major grammatical features of Mandarin Chinese and how they differ from English. The textbook is written in relatively simple Chinese; class discussion is also in Chinese. Course work includes grammatical exercises, class presentations, and writing assignments. 
913:Instruction and practice in Chinese-to-English translation (written) and interpreting (oral), designed for second-language learners of Chinese. Students work with materials covering many fields. 
914:This is a theme-based and proficiency-oriented advanced Chinese conversation course designed for nonheritage students. The purpose of the course is to train students in the skills of composing formal speech. 
915:The goal of this course is to improve students' overall language proficiency using Chinese for business purposes. They will develop enhanced skills of reading business journalism and case studies and writing business letters or email messages. 
916:Readings in Chinese literature and language on varying topics. May be taken more than once for credit as topics change. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
917:Permission of the department. For the student who wishes to create and pursue an independent project in Chinese under the supervision of a selected instructor. Maximum three credit hours per semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
918:Advanced study of Chinese classics. 
919:Introduction to the classical Chinese language through reading short essays and poems. Instruction focuses on the similarities and differences between classical and modern Chinese in sentence structure and vocabulary. 
920:Recommended preparation, CHIN 510 or 511. This course examines the reinterpretation and appropriation of ancient Chinese philosophy in contemporary China, on such themes as Confucian ethics and Daoist metaphysics and aesthetics. 
921:An overview of the development of Chinese language during the 20th century. Topics include the unique features of Chinese, the role of Chinese language in education, Chinese language change and modern history, regional dialects, spoken versus written language, and language planning. 
922:This is an advanced topics course in Chinese literature and language, culture and society. The instruction is entirely in Chinese with the use of authentic materials. Three hours per week. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
923:Introduces the essential elements of modern Hebrew structure and vocabulary and aspects of modern Israeli culture. Aural comprehension, reading, speaking, and writing are stressed. 
924:Continued instruction in the essential elements of modern Hebrew structure and vocabulary and aspects of modern Israeli culture. Aural comprehension, reading, speaking, and writing are stressed. 
925:Second-year instruction in the essential elements of modern Hebrew structure and vocabulary and aspects of modern Israeli culture. Aural comprehension, reading, speaking, and writing are stressed. An introduction to representative literary works is included. 
926:Continued instruction in the essential elements of modern Hebrew structure and vocabulary and aspects of modern Israeli culture. Aural comprehension, reading, speaking, and writing are stressed. An introduction to representative literary works is included. 
927:Third year of instruction in modern Hebrew with an emphasis on Israeli culture, literature, and media. 
928:Third year of instruction in modern Hebrew with an emphasis on Israeli culture, literature, and media. 
929:Introduction to modern spoken and written Hindi-Urdu. Speaking and listening practice, basic sentence pattern exercises, grammar fundamentals, the writing system, and creative applications exploring South Asian culture are included. 
930:Continued instruction in modern spoken and written Hindi-Urdu. Sessions include speaking and listening drills, skits, role-play, and discussion of video and audio materials. 
931:Second year of instruction in modern spoken and written Hindi-Urdu, including situational speaking and listening practice, complex sentence pattern exercises and idioms, vocabulary building, intermediate grammar topics, and reading exercises. 
932:Continued second year of instruction in modern spoken and written Hindi- Urdu. Students practice writing short essays and letters and continue to develop mature oral competency in Hindi-Urdu. 
933:In this course, students will master the Hindi alphabet, the Sanskrit-based Devanagari writing system. This course complements the regular Hindi- Urdu language sequence. Prior knowledge of spoken Hindi or Urdu is required; entry to this class is by placement only. 
934:This course introduces the Urdu alphabet (Nastaliq). Prior knowledge of spoken Urdu or Hindi is required; entry to this class is by placement only. 
935:Third year of instruction in spoken and written Hindi-Urdu with an emphasis on the reading and discussion of short stories, prose articles, and interviews. 
936:Third year of instruction in spoken and written Hindi-Urdu with an emphasis on the reading and analysis of poetry. 
937:Advanced language course introducing authentic readings on cultural and social topics relating to modern South Asian society. Texts are supplemented by case studies and interviews. Course is taught in Hindi- Urdu and provides further training in speaking and writing. Participation in extracurricular activities is encouraged. 
938:This advanced language course introduces students to authentic film and visual and print media from modern South Asia, analyzed within historical, social, and aesthetic contexts. This course is taught in Hindi- Urdu with further training in speaking and writing. Participation in relevant extracurricular activities is encouraged. 
939:Ghazal is the most important genre of Urdu-Hindi poetry from the 18th century to the present. This course, taught in Hindi-Urdu, concerns the analysis and interpretation of ghazals. 
940:Directed readings in Hindi-Urdu literature and language on topics not covered by scheduled classes. Possible areas of study include Indian film and literature, Hindi-English translations, the Indian diaspora, Hindi journalism, and readings in comparative religions. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
941:Permission of the department. For the student who wishes to create and pursue an independent project in Hindi-Urdu under the supervision of a selected instructor. Maximum three credit hours per semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
942:Introduction to modern Japanese with text and supplementary materials. Hiragana, katakana, and basic kanji are introduced. Weekly class hours devoted to basic sentence pattern exercises, speaking and writing practice, and creative application. Participation in relevant extracurricular activities encouraged. 
943:Continued beginning course of modern Japanese with text and supplementary materials. Approximately 150 additional kanji are introduced. Focus on basic sentence pattern exercises, speaking and writing practice, and creative application. Participation in relevant extracurricular activities encouraged. 
944:Emphasis on situational expressions, mastery of basic structures, and approximately 150 new kanji. Conversation practice, reading and writing of passages, and creative application expected. Participation in relevant extracurricular activities encouraged. 
945:Continued emphasis on situational expressions, mastery of basic structures, and approximately 150 to 200 new kanji. Conversation practice, reading and writing of passages, and creative application expected. Participation in relevant extracurricular activities encouraged. 
946:Advanced written and spoken Japanese introduced to students who have learned more than 500 kanji. Emphasis is placed on advanced expressions, conversation for a variety of situations, reading and writing longer texts, and approximately 150 additional kanji. Class conducted in Japanese. Participation in relevant extracurricular activities encouraged. 
947:Second semester of third-year Japanese, continuing the study of written and spoken Japanese at the advanced level. Participation in relevant extracurricular activities encouraged. 
948:This course reviews the key grammar, vocabulary, and characters from the first three years of Japanese in preparation for the more advanced work of fourth-year elective courses. 
949:Uses newspaper and magazine articles and television broadcasts to introduce journalistic writing and speech as well as contemporary social and cultural issues. Class conducted in Japanese. Participation in relevant extracurricular activities encouraged. . 
950:This course introduces students to the popular writing, both fiction and nonfiction, designed for mass-market consumption in contemporary Japan. Class conducted in Japanese. Participation in relevant extracurricular activities encouraged. 
951:Advanced Japanese course designed to develop Japanese skills and deepen appreciation of Japanese cooking. Students will develop the ability to discuss and write about topic-oriented issues in Japanese. 
952:Students will learn a history of postwar Japanese music as an integral part of Japanese society and culture, and try to understand what messages each song attempts to communicate. 
953:This course explores the language of fashion in modern Japan through advertising, film, fiction, and magazines. How do fashion trends shape notions of gender, race, class, national identity, and global citizenship? 
954:This course explores contemporary Japanese language and culture through the pop cultural media of manga and anime. Topics include manga history, production, and various genres of Japanese comic books, manga. 
955:Introduces students to the unique Japanese cultural perspective on sports, while introducing new kanji and grammar structures and improving reading, speaking, and writing abilities. 
956:Students will learn about business culture in Japan, including customs and rules, in order to broaden their understanding of Japanese culture and people, while improving their language skills. 
957:This course helps students to improve their Japanese language skills while developing an understanding of Japanese culture through films and literature. Exercises include reading novels in Japanese, close observation of Japanese films, analysis of cultural context, writing summaries, and frequent discussion. 
958:Possible areas of study include popular culture, business Japanese, and Japanese-English translation. Course may be repeated for credit as topic changes. Participation in relevant extracurricular activities encouraged. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
959:Permission of the department. For the student who wishes to create and pursue an independent project in Japanese under the supervision of a selected instructor. Maximum three credit hours per semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
960:Students will improve Japanese language skills while they develop an understanding of Japanese culture through TV dramas. Exercises include intensive listening, reading and analyzing drama scripts, writing summaries, and frequent discussions on various topics. 416, or 490. 
961:Introduction to the spoken and written Persian (Farsi) language. 
962:Introduction to the spoken and written Persian (Farsi) language. 
963:Second-year instruction in the spoken and written Persian (Farsi) language. 
964:Second-year instruction in the spoken and written Persian (Farsi) language. 
965:Third-year Persian is an advanced language course. This course aims to develop students' command of the language through the study of classical and modern prose and poetry to an advanced level. 
966:As a continuation of PRSN 305, this course will focus on developing all language skills, where students will be asked to demonstrate progressive mastery of the language acquired through the study of classical and modern prose and poetry, and of complex grammatical structures. 
967:Introduces the essential elements of Turkish structure and vocabulary and aspects of Turkish culture. Aural comprehension, reading, speaking, and writing are stressed. 
968:Continued instruction in the essential elements of Turkish structure and vocabulary and aspects of Turkish culture. Aural comprehension, reading, speaking, and writing are stressed. 
969:Second-year level instruction in the essential elements of Turkish structure and vocabulary and aspects of Turkish culture. Aural comprehension, reading, speaking, and writing are stressed. Introduces representative literary works. 
970:A proficiency-based course centered on reading, writing, speaking, and listening to Turkish with an emphasis on understanding the application of grammatical structures and vocabulary development through the study of literature. 
971:Recommended preparation, one year of high school chemistry. Designed for prenursing, predental hygiene, allied health, and other students who desire a background in biochemistry as it relates to the human body. Brief review of inorganic and organic chemistry, followed by a survey of biochemistry (survey continues in BIOC 108). 
972:Designed for prenursing, predental hygiene, allied health, and other students who desire a background in biochemistry as it relates to the human body. Continuation of BIOC 107; covers basic and clinically relevant aspects of biochemistry. Three lecture hours and one two-hour laboratory a week. 
973:Required preparation, one course in biochemistry. Biochemical actions of toxicants and assessment of cellular damage by biochemical measurements. Three lecture hours per week. students lacking the prerequisites. 
974:Focuses on enzyme architecture to illustrate how the shapes of enzymes are designed to optimize the catalytic step and become allosterically modified to regulate the rate of catalysis. students lacking the prerequisite. 
975:Required preparation for undergraduates, at least one undergraduate course in both biochemistry and genetics. DNA structure, function, and interactions in prokaryotic and eukaryotic systems, including chromosome structure, replication, recombination, repair, and genome fluidity. Three lecture hours a week. 
976:Required preparation for undergraduates, at least one undergraduate course in both biochemistry and genetics. The purpose of this course is to provide historical, basic, and current information about the flow and regulation of genetic information from DNA to RNA in a variety of biological systems. Three lecture hours a week. 
977:Comprehensive introduction to cell structure, function, and transformation. permission of the instructor. 
978:Comprehensive introduction to cell structure, function, and transformation. permission of the instructor. 
979: Credit. This course focuses on the application of mathematics to topics important in biophysics, such as thermodynamics and electrostatics. The unit is designed to help students perform more efficiently in BIOC 650, 651, and 652. 
980: Credit. Required preparation, two semesters of physical chemistry or permission of the instructor. Basic molecular models and their use in developing statistical descriptions of macromolecular function. Course intended primarily for graduate students. 
981: Credit. Required preparation, two semesters of physical chemistry or permission of the instructor. Macromolecules as viewed with modern computational methods. Course intended primarily for graduate students. 
982:A combined lecture/laboratory workshop for serious students of protein crystallography. Course intended primarily for graduate students. students lacking the prerequisite. 
983:A combined lecture/computer lab treatment of the principles of macromolecular dynamics and structure as approached using the tools of molecular dynamics simulations. Course intended primarily for graduate students. students lacking the prerequisites. 
984:A combined lecture/computer lab course introducing the methods and principles of biological data management as this relates to macromolecular sequence analysis. Course intended primarily for graduate students. students lacking the prerequisites. 
985:This class is a 10-week summer course in biophysics. 
986:A lecture module that introduces students to the basics of mass spectrometry as applied to protein science. Course intended primarily for graduate students. chemistry or permission of the instructor. 
987:Ion Channels Transporters 
988:An intensive, six-hour per week introduction to the fundamentals of ion channel biophysics, including laboratory sessions to demonstrate principles and methods. Course intended primarily for graduate students. students lacking the prerequisite. 
989: Credit. Required preparation, two semesters of physical chemistry or permission of the instructor. Stability of macromolecules and their complexes with other molecules. Course intended primarily for graduate students. 
990:Principles of macromolecular structure and function with emphasis on proteins, molecular assemblies, enzyme mechanisms, and ATP enzymology. students lacking the prerequisite. 
991:Fundamentals of optics and light microscope design for the novice student. director. 
992:Theory and practice of biophysical methods used in the study of interactions between macromolecules and their ligands, including surface plasmon resonance, analytical ultracentrifugation, and calorimetry. students lacking the prerequisites. 
993:Required preparation, two semesters of physical chemistry or permission of the instructor. Principles of UV, IR, Raman, fluorescence, and spin resonance spectroscopies; applications to the study of macromolecules and membranes. Course intended primarily for graduate students. 
994:Advanced NMR Spectroscopy 
995:Principles of protein crystallography, characterization of crystals, theory of diffraction, phasing of macromolecular crystals and structure refinement. Course intended primarily for graduate students. students lacking the prerequisites. 
996:Restricted to first-year students. Introduction, in a first-year seminar, to recent advances in genetics and cell biology, and discussion and debate concerning how these advances are changing medicine, agriculture, and other aspects of our lives. 
997:Restricted to first-year students. The focus of this first-year seminar will be on the transition from hunter-gatherer, the interchange of crops, medicinal and psychoactive plants, and organic vs. industrial farming methods. 
998:Restricted to first-year students. A first-year seminar focusing on the future of human diseases and genetic tests. 
999:Restricted to first-year students. An examination of the biology and conservation of sea turtles, with an emphasis on how current scientific research informs conservation practices. 
1000:Restricted to first-year students. In this course we will examine the challenges of treating infectious disease in the developing world, and explore the root causes of global health care inequity. 
1001:Restricted to first-year students. Pneumonia will be a lens to examine a thread of history of biology and medicine. Current research to understand the condition, discover treatment and enact prevention options will be examined. 
1002:Successful biologists are necessarily entrepreneurs. This course will explore the parallels between biology and entrepreneurship. We follow these steps: generating ideas, marketing those ideas, testing them, and producing a product. 
1003:Restricted to first-year students. This is a special topics course; content will vary. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1004:Open to all undergraduates. This course is the prerequisite to most higher courses in biology. An introduction to the fundamental principles of biology, including cell structure, chemistry, and function; genetics; evolution; adaptation; and ecology. (See department concerning Advanced Placement credit.) Three lecture hours a week. 
1005:An examination of the fundamental concepts in biology with emphasis on scientific inquiry. Biological systems will be analyzed through experimentation, dissection, and observation. Three laboratory hours a week. 
1006:Open to all undergraduates. This course is the prerequisite to most higher courses in biology. An introduction to the fundamental principles of biology, including cell structure, chemistry, and function; genetics; evolution; adaptation; and ecology. (See department concerning Advanced Placement credit.) Three lecture hours a week. 
1007:For students not majoring in biology. Students who have taken any other course in the Department of Biology may not register for this course. Recent advances in the understanding of major principles in biology. Emphasis on genetics and medicine. Does not count as a course in the major. Three lecture hours a week. 
1008:Open to all undergraduates. An overview of basic human molecular and cellular biology in the setting of common human diseases. The course emphasizes how an understanding of disease mechanisms provides the knowledge base for informed use of modern health care. Does not count as a course in the major. 
1009:Fossils and the origin and evolution of life, including micro- and macroevolution, mass extinctions, the evolution of dinosaurs and humans, and scientific perspectives on multicultural creationism. Optional laboratory, GEOL 101L. PX credit for GEOL 159 + 101L. 
1010:Special topics in biology at an introductory level. This course does not count as a course in the biology major. 
1011:Laboratory in special topics in biology at an introductory level. This course does not count as a course in the biology major. 
1012:The research work must involve at least four hours per week of mentored research in a campus research laboratory. Does not count as a course in the major. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 2 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1013:Principles governing the ecology and evolution of populations, communities, and ecosystems, including speciation, population genetics, population regulation, and community and ecosystem structure and dynamics. Three lecture hours and one recitation-demonstration- conference hour a week. better in BIOL 101 and CHEM 101 or 102 required. 
1014:Principles governing the ecology and evolution of populations, communities, and ecosystems, including speciation, population genetics, population regulation, and community and ecosystem structure and dynamics. Three lecture hours and one recitation-demonstration- conference hour a week. better in BIOL 101 and CHEM 101 or 102 required. 
1015:Structure and function of nucleic acids, principles of inheritance, gene expression, and genetic engineering. Three lecture hours and one recitation-demonstration-conference hour a week. better in BIOL 101 and CHEM 101 or 102 is required. 
1016:Fundamentals of cell structure and activity in relation to special functions, metabolism, reproduction, embryogenesis, and with an introduction to the experimental analysis of cell physiology and development. Three lectures and one recitation-demonstration- conference hour a week. 
1017:Fundamentals of cell structure and activity in relation to special functions, metabolism, reproduction, embryogenesis, and with an introduction to the experimental analysis of cell physiology and development. Three lectures and one recitation-demonstration- conference hour a week. 
1018:Seminar based on current investigations at UNC. Students examine sources of scientific information, explore the logic of investigation, and develop proposals. Students with BIOL 211 credit may take a maximum of three hours of BIOL 395. students lacking the prerequisite; Not open to seniors. 
1019:For students not majoring in biology. Introduction to the scientific study of biological evolution and its applications. The mechanisms that cause evolution and general patterns of evolution during the history of life. Does not count as a course in the major. students lacking the prerequisite. 
1020:First-year transfer students only. This course combines human cell biology and classical botany elaborating the mode of action of plant metabolites in humans. Hands-on experience includes visits to a pharmaceutical company, a botanical garden, and maintaining the campus medicinal garden. 
1021:Introduction to scientific research projects using DNA barcoding to identify organisms present in environmental or food samples. Students will discuss relevant literature, develop hypotheses, analyze data, write a manuscript, and present results. the instructor for students lacking the prerequisite. 
1022:Introduction to scientific research projects using DNA barcoding to identify organisms present in environmental or food samples. Students will perform experiments based on hypotheses formulated in the corequisite lecture course. the instructor for students lacking the prerequisite. 
1023:An accessible treatment of classic mathematical applications to molecules, cells, development, genetics, ecology, and evolution, complementing the material taught in BIOL 201, 202, and 205. Three lecture hours a week. students lacking the prerequisite. Co-requisite, BIOL 224L; 
1024:An accessible treatment of classic mathematical applications to molecules, cells, development, genetics, ecology, and evolution, complementing the material taught in BIOL 201, 202, and 205. This lab component is programming-based. students lacking the prerequisite. Co-requisite, BIOL 224H; 
1025:Introduction to quantitative biology with emphasis on applications that use mathematical modeling, linear algebra, differential equations, and computer programming. Applications may include neural networks, biomechanics, dispersion, and systems of biochemical reactions. Three lecture hours a week. Corequisite, BIOL 226L. 
1026:Introduction to quantitative biology with emphasis on applications that use mathematical modeling, linear algebra, differential equations, and computer programming. Applications may include neural networks, biomechanics, dispersion, and systems of biochemical reactions. Three laboratory hours a week. Corequisite, BIOL 226. 
1027:This course relates the way in which the human body is constructed to the way in which it functions and is controlled. Students may not receive credit for both BIOL 251 and BIOL 252. Only offered through Continuing Studies. 
1028:permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisite. This is a course of simulated laboratory measurements exercises using typical data derived from actual physiological measurements on human subjects. Only offered though continuing education. Students may not receive credit for both BIOL 251L and BIOL 252. 
1029:One biology course over 200 recommended. An introductory but comprehensive course emphasizing the relationship between form and function of the body's organ systems. Three lecture hours each week. Students may not receive credit for BIOL 252 and BIOL 251 or BIOL 251L or BIOL 352 or BIOL 353. 
1030:Permission of the instructor for students lacking the pre- or corequisite. Organ level human structure and function. Three laboratory hours a week. 
1031:Introduction to the new field of biodiversity studies, which integrates approaches from systematics, ecology, evolution, and conservation. 
1032:Designed for students with an interest in natural sciences. An introduction to the principles of botany including structure, function, reproduction, heredity, environmental relationships, evolution and classification of plants. Three lecture hours a week. 
1033:Designed for students with an interest in natural sciences. An introduction to the principles of botany including structure, function, reproduction, heredity, environmental relationships, evolution and classification of plants. Three laboratory hours a week. 
1034:Open to all undergraduates. North Carolina's flora: recognition, identification, classification, evolution, history, economics, plant families, ecology, and conservation. Three lecture and three laboratory hours per week. 
1035:The cultivation, propagation and breeding of plants, with emphasis on ornamentals. Control of environmental factors for optimal plant growth. Laboratory exercises include plant culture, propagation, pruning, and identification of common ornamentals. Two lecture, one recitation, and three laboratory hours a week. 
1036:Survey of major groups of plants emphasizing interrelationships and comparative morphology. Culturing techniques and field work included. Three lecture hours a week. 
1037:Survey of major groups of plants emphasizing interrelationships and comparative morphology. Culturing techniques and field work included. Three laboratory hours a week. 
1038:Introduction to the diversity, ecology, behavior, and conservation of living vertebrates. Three lecture hours a week. 
1039:Permission of the instructor for students lacking the corequisite. Study of the diversity of vertebrates in the field. Three laboratory and field hours a week, including one or two weekend trips. 
1040:Introduction to animal behavior with emphases on the diversity and adaptation of behavior in natural conditions. Three lecture hours a week. 
1041:Techniques of observation and experiments in animal behavior. Three laboratory hours a week. 
1042:Permission of the instructor. An undergraduate course devoted to consideration of pertinent aspects of a selected organismal biological discipline. 
1043:Permission of the instructor. An undergraduate laboratory course covering aspects of a specific organismal biological discipline. Laboratory reports will be required. Research work is not included in this course. 
1044:Permission of the instructor. An undergraduate laboratory course covering aspects of a specific biological discipline. Laboratory reports will be required. Research work is not included in this course. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 3 total completions. 
1045:Permission of the instructor. An undergraduate seminar course devoted to consideration of pertinent aspects of a selected biological discipline. 
1046:Permission required. 3.0 or higher in course taught. Experience includes preparations, demonstrations, assistance, and attendance at weekly meetings. Apprentices will not be involved in any aspects of grading. May be repeated for credit. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 3 total credits. 3 total completions. 
1047:Permission required. 3.0 in course taught. Experience includes weekly meetings, preparations, demonstrations, instruction, and grading. May be repeated for credit. Six hours per week. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 3 total completions. 
1048:Permission of the instructor. Biology majors only. The sponsored, off- campus work must involve at least 135 hours. Does not count as a course in the major. 
1049:Permission of the instructor. APPLES service-learning component for students enrolled in biology courses. Does not count as a course in the major. 
1050:Permission of the instructor. APPLES service-learning component for students enrolled in biology courses. Does not count as a course in the major. 
1051:Permission of the instructor. Junior and senior biology majors only. The work must involve at least 135 hours of research effort in which students learn to ask appropriate questions and place results in a suitable framework. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1052:Permission of the instructor. Extensive and intensive reading of the literature of a specific biological field directly supervised by a member of the biology faculty. Written reports on the readings, or a literature review paper will be required. Cannot be used as a course toward the major. 
1053:Permission of the instructor. Extensive and intensive reading of the literature of a specific biological field directly supervised by a member of the biology faculty. Written reports on the readings, or a literature review paper will be required. Cannot be used as a course toward the major. 
1054:Required preparation, major in a natural science or two courses in natural sciences. Studies origin of ocean basins, seawater chemistry and dynamics, biological communities, sedimentary record, and oceanographic history. Term paper. Students lacking science background should see MASC 101. Students may not receive credit for both MASC 101 and MASC 401. 
1055:BIOL 205 recommended. A comprehensive study of the structure and function of the human body. Includes comprehensive study of tissues and the integumentary, skeletal, muscular, and nervous systems. Three lecture hours each week. Students may not receive credit for both BIOL 352 and BIOL 252. 
1056:A hands-on study of the structure and function of the human body. Includes comprehensive study of the skeletal, muscular, and nervous systems. Three laboratory hours each week. the instructor for students lacking the pre- or co-requisite. 
1057:Studies the structure, function, and development of the human body: endocrine, cardiovascular, lymphatic/immune, respiratory, digestive, urinary, reproductive systems. Three lecture hours each week. Can be used as an allied science elective but not a biology course for the major. Students may not receive credit for both BIOL 353 and BIOL 252. 
1058:A hands-on study of the structure and function of the human body. Includes study of the cardiovascular, respiratory, digestive, urinary, reproductive systems. Three laboratory hours each week. the instructor for students lacking the pre- or co-requisite. 
1059:Permission of the instructor. Majors only. Overall 3.0 GPA required. Laboratory study addressing biological questions. Requires final written report. Repeatable for six credit hours. One through five hours counts as a lecture course. Six hours (or BIOL 211 and three hours of BIOL 395) counts as a lecture/laboratory course. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 3 total completions. 
1060:Permission of the instructor. Majors only. Overall 3.0 GPA required. Laboratory study addressing biological questions. Requires final written report. Repeatable for six credit hours. One through five hours counts as a lecture course. Six hours (or BIOL 211 and three hours of BIOL 395) counts as a lecture/laboratory course. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 3 total completions. 
1061:We will explore the challenges of infectious disease in the developing world, focusing on tuberculosis, HIV, and malaria. We will also examine the economics of different approaches to health care. 
1062:This course will develop the knowledge and skills teachers need to implement inquiry-based biology instruction: rich, conceptual knowledge of biology and mastery of inquiry-based teaching methods. Does not count as a laboratory course. BIOL 201, 202, and/or 205. 
1063:Sterile technique, bacterial growth, physiology, genetics and diversity, and bacteriophage. Research in bacterial genetics. 
1064:Bacterial form, growth, physiology, genetics, and diversity. Bacterial interactions including symbiosis and pathogenesis (animal and plant). Use of bacteria in biotechnology. Brief introduction to viruses. students lacking the prerequisite. 
1065:Sterile technique, bacterial growth and physiology, bacterial genetics, bacteriophage, and bacterial diversity. 
1066:Experiments using a range of organisms--from bacteria to Drosophila, higher plants, and man-- to sample organismal and molecular genetics. One lecture hour, four laboratory hours. 
1067:Instructor permission for students lacking prerequisite. Class emphasizes the creativity of the scientific process, using primary scientific literature as a framework to discuss topics in microbial ecology, including microbial diversity, distributions, genomics, and co-evolution; host-microbe and microbe-microbe interactions; nutrient cycling; and degradation of plant matter and biofuels. 
1068:Pedigree analysis, inheritance of complex traits, DNA damage and repair, human genome organization, DNA fingerprinting, the genes of hereditary diseases, chromosomal aberrations, cancer and oncogenes, immunogenetics and tissue transplants. Three lecture hours a week. students lacking the prerequisite. 
1069:An introduction to the biology and pathophysiology of blood and the molecular mechanisms of some human diseases: anemias; leukemias; hemorrhagic, thrombotic, and vascular disorders; and HIV disease/AIDS. students lacking the prerequisite. Same as: PATH 426. BIOL 426H. Biology of Blood Diseases. 3 Credits. An introduction to the biology and pathophysiology of blood and the molecular mechanisms of some human diseases: anemias; leukemias; hemorrhagic, thrombotic, and vascular disorders; and HIV disease/AIDS. students lacking the prerequisite. 
1070:permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. This course investigates the facts, methods, and theories behind human population genetics, evolution, and diversity. Specifically, it addresses questions of human origins, population structure, and genetic diversity. 
1071:The study of cellular processes including catalysts, metabolism, bioenergetics, and biochemical genetics. The structure and function of biological macromolecules involved in these processes is emphasized. 
1072:How diffusion, entropy, electrostatics, and hydrophobicity generate order and force in biology. Topics include DNA manipulation, intracellular transport, cell division, molecular motors, single molecule biophysics techniques, nerve impulses, neuroscience. 
1073:Advanced studies in molecular biology from an experimental approach. instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
1074:Permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisite. Recent advances in plant molecular biology, genetics, development, and biotechnology, and their potential relevance to agriculture. The course will include lectures, reading and discussions of papers from the primary literature, and student presentations. 
1075:This course presents an introduction to signal transduction pathways used by higher eukaryotes. Several signaling paradigms will be discussed to illustrate the ways that cells transmit information. Three lecture hours per week. for students lacking the prerequisites. 
1076:Principles of development with special emphasis on gametogenesis, fertilization, cleavage, germ layer formation, organogenesis, and mechanisms, with experimental analysis of developmental processes. Three lecture hours a week. students lacking the prerequisite. 
1077:Descriptive and some experimental aspects of vertebrate development. Three laboratory hours a week. 
1078:An experimental approach to an understanding of animals and plants. The approach covers developmental processes, molecular, genetic, cell biological and biochemical techniques, with an emphasis on the molecules involved in development. instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
1079:This course investigates the biological causes behind human diseases via critical thinking and analysis of experimental research outcomes. It approaches topics from a research perspective similar to a graduate seminar. Topics covered include genetic/inherited diseases, metabolic diseases, immunological disorders, infectious diseases, cancer, cardiovascular diseases, and neurological diseases. 
1080:Selected examples will be used to illustrate how basic research allows us to understand the mechanistic basis of cancer and how these insights offer hope for new treatments. 
1081:A survey of areas of current interest in cytology, embryology, and genetics with concentration on problems that remain unsolved but that appear to be near solution. Three lecture and discussion hours a week. students lacking the prerequisite. 
1082:Modern methods in cell biology. preparation, a grade of C+ or better in BIOL 205. 
1083:Modern methods in cell biology lab. preparation, a grade of C+ or better in BIOL 205. 
1084:An advanced course in cell biology, with emphasis on the biochemistry and molecular biology of cell structure and function. Three lecture hours a week. students lacking the prerequisite. 
1085:This course provides a general overview of the evolution, organization, and function of the immune system. Instruction will be inquiry-based with extensive use of informational and instructional technology tools. students lacking the prerequisite. 
1086:Recommended preparation, BIOL 205. Survey of neurobiological principles in vertebrates and invertebrates, including development, morphology, physiology, and molecular mechanisms. Three lectures a week. 
1087:An examination of the physiology of animals using a comparative approach. Both invertebrate and vertebrate animals are discussed in order to elucidate general principles. and either PHYS 105 or 117. 
1088:The fundamental principles of physiology are explored using physical models, animal experiments, and non invasive experiments on humans, reinforcing the understanding of concepts presented in lecture. 
1089:Permission of the instructor for students lacking the requisites. Comparative review of animal societies; diversity of social structure, social dynamics, communication, ecology, and evolution of social organization. Three lecture hours a week. 
1090:The roles of mutation, migration, genetic drift, and natural selection in the evolution of the genotype and phenotype. Basic principles are applied to biological studies. Three lecture hours a week. for students lacking the prerequisites. 
1091:The neurobiological basis of animal behavior at the level of single cells, neural circuits, sensory systems, and organisms. Lecture topics range from principles of cellular neurobiology to ethological field studies. students lacking the prerequisite. 
1092:Recommended preparation, BIOL 201 or 475. A survey of plants and animals that live in the sea: characteristics of marine habitats, organisms, and the ecosystems will be emphasized. Marine environment, the organisms involved, and the ecological systems that sustain them. 
1093:Recommended preparation, BIOL 205. An exploration of sensory systems and sensory ecology in animals. Topics range from neurophysiological function of sensory receptors to the role of sensory cues in animal behavior. 
1094:Content varies. Summer field biology at the Highlands Biological Station focuses on the special faunal and floristic processes and patterns characteristic of the southern Appalachian mountains. Five lecture and three to five laboratory and field hours per week, depending on credit. students lacking the prerequisite. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 8 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1095:Students will develop a comprehensive understanding of the field of ecology, including modern and emerging trends in ecology. They will develop literacy in the fundamental theories and models that capture ecological processes; emphasis will also be placed on the relevance of ecology and ecological research for human society. 
1096:Survey of the ecological processes that structure marine communities in a range of coastal habitats. Course emphasizes experimental approaches to addressing basic and applied problems in marine systems. 
1097:Application of ecological theory to terrestrial and/or freshwater systems. Lectures emphasize quantitative properties of interacting population and communities within these systems. Required laboratory teaches methodology applicable for analysis of these systems. Projects emphasize experimental testing of ecological theory in the field. Two lecture and six field hours a week. 
1098:Responses of plants, animals, and communities to climate and other global changes, emphasizing ecology, physiology, behavior, and evolution. Investigation of past responses and tools for predicting future responses. 
1099:We will explore global patterns of diversity of plants, animals, fungi, and microbes, and the insights gained by taking a statistical approach to describing these and other broad-scale ecological patterns. students lacking the prerequisite. 
1100:BIOL 278 recommended but not required and can be taken concurrently. Behavior as an adaptation to the environment. Evolution of behavioral strategies for survival and reproduction. Optimality and games that animals play. Three lecture hours a week. . 
1101:Introduction to mechanisms of evolutionary change, including natural selection, population genetics, life history evolution, speciation, and micro- and macroevolutionary trends. Three lecture hours a week. Permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
1102:A study of avian evolution, anatomy, physiology, neurobiology, behavior, biogeography, and ecology. Three lecture hours a week. 
1103:Techniques for the study of avian evolution, ecology, and behavior with emphasis on North Carolina birds. Three laboratory or field hours a week, including one or two weekend field trips. 
1104:Introduction to the principles, methods of analysis, and major controversies within paleontology. Examination of the fossil record and its application to problems in evolutionary biology, paleoecology, paleoclimatology, and general earth history. instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
1105:Topics in organismal biology at an advanced undergraduate or graduate student level. 
1106:Laboratory in topics in organismal biology for advanced undergraduates and graduate students. 
1107:Permission of the instructor. Content will vary. Three lecture and discussion hours per week by visiting and resident faculty. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
1108:Permission of the instructor. Content will vary. Three lecture and discussion hours per week by visiting and resident faculty. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
1109:Permission of the instructor. Majors only. An overall 3.0 grade point average required. Laboratory study on a selected topic and directed readings. A final written report is required each term. May be repeated. This course is offered for pass/fail credit only. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
1110:Introduction to mechanisms of evolutionary change, including natural selection, population genetics, life history evolution, speciation, and micro- and macroevolutionary trends. Three laboratory hours a week. Permission of the instructor for students lacking the requisites. 
1111:Introduction to the taxonomy of vascular plants. Principles of classification, identification, nomenclature, and description. Laboratory and field emphasis on phytography, families, description, identification, and classification of vascular plant species. Three lecture and three laboratory hours a week. instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
1112:Prerequisities, BIOL 252 or 474L. Laboratory includes a detailed dissection of a representative mammal, emphasizing the common structure of mammals. Opportunity for independent investigation of specific functional adaptations of specialized forms. 
1113:An in-depth examination of the morphological adaptations of mammals. Particular attention will be given to osteology, the locomotor system, and craniofacial structures. 
1114:Evolutionary history of the vertebrates. Emphasis on anatomical, physiological, behavioral adaptations accompanying major transitions: the move from water to land, the development of complex integrating systems. students lacking the prerequisite. 
1115:Vertebrate comparative anatomy of organ systems and their evolution with emphasis on human anatomy. Three laboratory hours a week. 
1116:Evolutionary history of the vertebrates. Emphasis on anatomical, physiological, behavioral adaptations accompanying major transitions: the move from water to land, the development of complex integrating systems. students lacking the prerequisite. 
1117:Required preparation, one additional course in biology. An introduction to the major animal phyla emphasizing form, function, behavior, ecology, evolution, and classification of marine invertebrates. Three lecture and three laboratory hours per week. 
1118:Permission of the instructor. Majors only. An overall 3.0 grade point average required. Laboratory study on a selected topic and directed readings. A final written report is required each term. May be repeated. This course is offered for pass/fail credit only. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
1119:Permission of the instructor. A consideration and discussion of ethical issues in life sciences including cloning humans, genetic engineering, stem cell research, organ transplantation, and animal experimentation. Counts as a course numbered below 400 for biology major requirements. 
1120:The course examines the mechanisms by which organisms are built and evolve. In particular, it examines how novel and complex traits and organisms arise from interactions among genes and cells. instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
1121:The course examines the mechanisms by which organisms are built and evolve. In particular, it examines how novel and complex traits and organisms arise from interactions among genes and cells. instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
1122:Genetics of eubacteria with emphasis on molecular genetics including regulation of gene expression, transposons, operons, regulons, plasmids, transformation, and conjugation. Computer analysis of DNA sequences. students lacking the prerequisite. 
1123:There is great variety in how microbes colonize and live with their hosts. The course will summarize strategies of pathogenicity, symbiosis, commensalism and mutualism. Evolutionary, cellular, and molecular aspects will be analyzed. students lacking the prerequisite. 
1124:Practical introduction to computational techniques for the analysis of large-scale genomics data, particularly from high-throughput sequencing technologies. Basic knowledge of molecular biology, beginning level programming skills, and familiarity with basic statistical concepts are expected. Three lecture hours a week. corequisite, BIOL 525L. 
1125:Computer lab will provide students with experience designing, programming, and using computational analysis software for genomics applications. Basic knowledge of molecular biology, beginning level programming skills, and familiarity with basic statistical concepts are expected. Three laboratory hours a week. corequisite, BIOL 525. 
1126:Permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. Graduate enrollment allowed with permission of the instructor. Introduction to computational principles underlying sequence alignment and phylogenetics, genome assembly and annotation, analysis of gene function, and other bioinformatics applications. Includes a one-hour computer laboratory. COMP 116, and STOR 155; 
1127:Permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. Graduate enrollment allowed with permission of the instructor. Introduction to computational principles underlying sequence alignment and phylogenetics, genome assembly and annotation, analysis of gene function, and other bioinformatics applications. Includes a one-hour computer laboratory. COMP 116, and STOR 155; 
1128:Seminar in quantitative biology for advanced students. The course counts as a quantitative biology course for the major. of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
1129:Laboratory in quantitative biology for advanced students. The laboratory will involve mathematical analysis and modeling of biological systems and processes. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
1130:The course will focus on mathematical and informatics approaches to modeling biological systems in particular gene networks. Students are expected to have some experience with programming. and either MATH 232 or 283. Co-requisite, BIOL 528L; 
1131:The lab will focus on mathematical and informatics approaches to modeling biological systems in particular gene networks. Students are expected to have some experience with programming. and either MATH 232 or 283. Co-requisite, BIOL 528; 
1132:This course examines recent insights into molecular and cellular processes obtained through modern experimental approaches. Extensive reading of primary literature, discussed in a seminar format. BIOL course; Permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
1133:Requires some knowledge of computer programming. Model validation and numerical simulations using ordinary, partial, stochastic, and delay differential equations. Applications to the life sciences may include muscle physiology, biological fluid dynamics, neurobiology, molecular regulatory networks, and cell biology. 
1134:Permission of the instructor. Recommended preparation, BIOL 434. Experiments with bacterial phage, nucleic acid isolation and properties, recombinant DNA techniques, and DNA sequencing. Additional hours in laboratory will be necessary to complete assignments. 
1135:Recent advances in biotechnology and synthetic biology, and their potential relevance to medicine, agriculture, and engineering. The course will include lectures, reading and discussions of papers from the primary literature, and student projects and presentations. 
1136:Permission of the instructor. Introduction to various types of light microscopy, digital and video imaging techniques, and their application in biological sciences. 
1137:Recommended preparation, PHYS 105. The structure and function of organisms in relation to the principles of fluid mechanics and solid mechanics. PHYS 116. 
1138:Undergraduates need permission of the instructor to enroll. The study of the interactions among hormones, the brain, and behavior from how hormones shape the development and expression of behaviors to how behavioral interactions regulate endocrine physiology. 
1139:This course introduces analytical, computational, and statistical techniques, such as discrete models, numerical integration of ordinary differential equations, and likelihood functions, to explore various fields of biology. MATH 232 or STOR 155; Co-requisite, BIOL 553L/MATH 553L; permission of the instructor for students lacking the requisites. 
1140:This lab introduces analytical, computational, and statistical techniques, such as discrete models, numerical integration of ordinary differential equations, and likelihood functions, to explore various fields of biology. MATH 232 or STOR 155; Co-requisite, BIOL 553/MATH 553; Permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
1141:An introduction to the fossil record of plants, investigating how plants originated and changed through geological time to produce the modern flora. Both macrofossils and microfossils will be considered. Three lecture hours a week. 200; corequisite, BIOL 555L; permission of the instructor for students lacking the requisites. 
1142:The laboratory involves learning how to locate, collect, prepare, and analyze fossil plants; it also provides fossils that illustrate topics covered in lecture. Students will be involved in field trips to fossil sites and museums to learn about fossil curation and display of fossils for public education. Three laboratory hours a week. corequisite, BIOL 555. 
1143:Additional required preparation, a 400-level BIOL course or permission of the instructor. An examination of the origin and evolution of animal flight and how scientific understanding of this topic has changed from the mid-1800s to the present day. 
1144:Description of the major vegetation types of the world including their distribution, structure, and dynamics. The principal causes for the distribution of plant species and communities, such as climate, soils, and history will be discussed. instructor for students lacking the prerequisite. 
1145:Introduction to the application of quantitative and statistical methods in environmental science, including environmental monitoring, assessment, threshold exceedance, risk assessment, and environmental decision making. 
1146:Application of modern statistical analysis and data modeling in ecological and evolutionary research. Emphasis is on computer-intensive methods and model-based approaches. Familiarity with standard parametic statistics is assumed. instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
1147:The application of biological science to the conservation of populations, communities, and ecosystems, including rare species management, exotic species invasions, management of natural disturbance, research strategies, and preserve design principles. students lacking the prerequisite. 
1148:The application of biological science to the conservation of populations, communities, and ecosystems, including rare species management, exotic species invasions, management of natural disturbance, research strategies, and preserve design principles. students lacking the prerequisite. 
1149:Advanced consideration of the evolution of form and function. May include issues in life-history evolution, evolutionary physiology, evolutionary morphology, and the evolution of complexity. Three lecture hours per week. students lacking the prerequisite. 
1150:Recommended preparation, one course above 400 in ecology or evolution. An advanced class covering the causes and consequences of infectious disease at the levels of whole organisms, populations, communities, and ecosystems. instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
1151:Permission of the instructor. An examination of the field biology of selected fungi, plants, or animals of the Appalachian Mountains. The morphology, taxonomy, ecology, life history, and behavior of the organisms will be explored both in the laboratory and in the field. 
1152:Special topics in biology for advanced undergraduate students and graduate students. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
1153:Laboratory at an advanced level in special topics in biology. Students should have had considerable previous laboratory experience. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 2 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1154:The goal of this course is to help students who intend to become professional ecologists or biologists acquire critical skills and strategies needed for achieving their career goals. 
1155:Required preparation, participation in an ongoing laboratory research project. Permission of the instructor. A seminar course designed to introduce students to approaches and methods needed in carrying out an independent research project in a particular focus area of biology. For advanced undergraduates and graduate students. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 2 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1156:A seminar course designed to introduce students to how to read and write scientific papers. For advanced undergraduates and graduate students. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 2 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1157:Prerequisite for undergraduates, BIOL 202. Permission of the instructor for undergraduates. Genetic principles of genetic analysis in prokaryotes and lower eukaryotes. 
1158:Principles of genetic analysis in higher eukaryotes; genomics. 
1159:Permission of the instructor for undergraduates. Genetic and molecular control of plant and animal development. Extensive reading from primary literature. 
1160:Required preparation for undergraduates, at least one undergraduate course in both biochemistry and genetics. DNA structure, function, and interactions in prokaryotic and eukaryotic systems, including chromosome structure, replication, recombination, repair, and genome fluidity. Three lecture hours a week. 
1161:Required preparation for undergraduates, at least one undergraduate course in both biochemistry and genetics. The purpose of this course is to provide historical, basic, and current information about the flow and regulation of genetic information from DNA to RNA in a variety of biological systems. Three lecture hours a week. 
1162:Permission of the instructor. May be repeated for credit. Current and significant problems in plant molecular and cell biology are discussed in a seminar format. Can count as BIOL elective credit in the major if combined with other 600-level courses for a total of three credit hours. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 12 total completions. 
1163:An advanced course in cell and molecular biology integrating genetic, biochemical, and structural aspects of the cell cycle. Principles derived from a variety of biological systems. Extensive reading of classic papers as well as recent literature. students lacking the prerequisite. 
1164:This seminar examines the cytoskeletal systems of eukaryotes and prokaryotes via primary literature. Architectures of cytoskeletal components are compared and contrasted along with their regulators, nucleators, and molecular motors. instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
1165:Permission of the instructor. A consideration of various aspects of palynology, including the morphology, structure, development, systematics, evolution, preparation techniques, and analysis of living and fossil pollen grains, spores, and other palynomorphs. Two lecture and six laboratory hours a week. 
1166:May be repeated for credit. Can count as BIOL elective credit in the major if combined with other 600-level courses for a total of three credit hours. students lacking the prerequisite. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 6 total completions. 
1167:For graduate students; undergraduates need permission of the instructor. Marine ecosystem processes pertaining to the structure, function, and ecological interactions of biological communities; management of biological resources; taxonomy and natural history of pelagic and benthic marine organisms. Three lecture and one recitation hours per week. Two mandatory weekend fieldtrips. 
1168:Permission of the instructor. Advanced studies in evolutionary biology. Can count as BIOL elective credit in the major if combined with other 600- level courses for a total of three credit hours. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 6 total completions. 
1169:Consideration of terrestrial, vascular plant ecology including environmental physiology, population dynamics, and community structure. Laboratory stresses collection and interpretation of field data. Three lecture and three laboratory hours a week. 
1170:Intensive literature and field study of the plant geography and ecology of a selected region. Weekly seminar-style discussion followed by approximately nine days' field experience. May be repeated for credit. instructor. 
1171:May be repeated for credit. students lacking the prerequisite. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 12 total completions. 
1172:Permission of the instructor. The course will cover topics and experimental approaches of current interest. Students will learn intellectual and practical aspects of cutting-edge topics in biology. It will meet for one hour per week, in a lecture and discussion format. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 3 total credits. 3 total completions. 
1173:Permission of the instructor. Special topics in biology with an emphasis on recent research. For advanced undergraduates and graduate students. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1174:Permission of a faculty research director and three credit hours of BIOL 395 in the same laboratory required. Must be taken in the final semester of senior year. Fall and spring only. 
1175:Special topics course. Content will vary each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1176:An introduction to the groundbreaking tools and topics of biomedical engineering, including medical imaging, medical robotics, rehabilitative engineering, regenerative medicine, and medical device design. 
1177:Focus on the materials science and processing of electronic, metallic, polymeric, ceramic, and composite materials. The electronic, optical, magnetic, and structural properties of materials are related to their applications. PHYS 117 or 119. 
1178:Course covers rigid body mechanics of bodies at equilibrium or at rest (statics), and an introduction to rigid body mechanics of bodies in motion (dynamics). A foundation in engineering concepts and practices required to design and analyze many types of structural members is presented. Provides a foundation for more advanced courses. 
1179:A study in the special fields under the direction of the faculty. Offered as needed for presenting material not normally available in regular BMME courses. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
1180:This course introduces students to problem-solving techniques using the MATLAB programming language. Fundamental computer science basics are taught as they relate to problems encountered in biomedical engineering and other scientific disciplines. Programming activities will incorporate actual data (e.g., stress/strain data and microscopy images) for relevant, real-world examples. 
1181:Students will learn: use of design software (SolidWorks and support/ analysis programs); basic techniques for directly measuring solid objects; electronic assembly techniques; and how to design simple electronic circuits. Note: BME Toolkit purchase is required for this course. 
1182:Students learn basic tools and procedures of modern design and practice traditional and modern rapid manufacturing technologies/techniques. Laboratory exercises and Web-based instructional content. 
1183:The elements of thermodynamics and phenomenological kinetics of diffusion appropriate to solids are examined. Topics include equations of state, heat capacity, polyphase equilibria, phase transitions, diffusion, and interfaces. 
1184:Fundamentals of analog and digital circuit analysis and design as applied to biomedical instrumentation and measurement of biological potentials. Class will consist of lectures and problem solving of analog and digital circuits. In lab students will design, develop, and test circuits, and acquire data to a computer using LabView. 
1185:A course on the quantitative aspects of basic human physiology. Class work will provide students with a basic understanding of human anatomy and physiology. A laboratory portion will explore actual physiological measurement techniques and quantitatively evaluate human physiology using statistical analyses. 
1186:Permission of the director of undergraduate studies. At least nine hours of independent work a week. Research with a faculty mentor. Approved learning contract required. Research proposal and final research paper also required. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
1187:Permission of the director of undergraduate studies. Independent study under a member of the biomedical engineering faculty. Approved learning contract required. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
1188:This course provides an overview of musculoskeletal anatomy, and of the mechanical behavior of biological tissues and biological systems. Students learn to apply fundamental principles of mechanics to analyze movement in humans and other animals. Applications in rehabilitation and orthopedics are emphasized. 
1189:Analysis of linear systems by transform methods to networks, including Fourier transforms, Laplace transforms, and convolution. Survey of linear systems applications to biomedical problems. 
1190:This course provides an introduction to the ideas and methodologies in the field of synthetic biology. Lectures focus on fundamental concepts in molecular biology and engineering as applied to biological system design. The laboratory portion of the course provides hands-on application of fundamental techniques in synthetic biology research. and CHEM 102. 
1191:How diffusion, entropy, electrostatics, and hydrophobicity generate order and force in biology. Topics include DNA manipulation, intracellular transport, cell division, molecular motors, single molecule biophysics techniques, nerve impulses, neuroscience. 
1192:Introduction to methodologies used to characterize a) the aggregate behavior of living neural networks and b) the changes in that behavior that occur as a function of stimulus properties, pharmacological manipulations, and other factors that dynamically modify the functional status of the network. 
1193:This course introduces students to basics of fluid mechanics (steady and pulsatile flows, laminar and turbulent flows, and Newtonian and non-Newtonian flows). Students learn the fundamental relationships and governing equations describing these types of flows and the basic physiology of certain systems that are highly associated with fluid flows. COMP 116. 
1194:The purpose of this course is to present microscopy techniques utilized in the analysis of biological and chemical samples. This course provides a systematic and in-depth examination of light and electron microscopy, including their various components, for example, detectors, light sources, and lenses. For graduate students and advanced undergraduates. 
1195:Topics include basic electronic circuit design, analysis of medical instrumentation circuits, physiologic transducers (pressure, flow, bioelectric, temperate, and displacement). This course includes a laboratory where the student builds biomedical devices. Note, an embedded computer kit purchase is required for this course. 
1196:Lectures in this course address how to quantitatively evaluate functional engineered tissues. The course provides an overview of the field, with emphasis on detailed evaluation of scientific and commercial progress over time, and design principles that must be met to develop a process or fabricate a functional tissue-engineered part. 
1197:This course serves as introduction for engineers pursuing transport phenomena and for future pharmaco-engineers requiring predictive models of mass transfer or pharmacodynamic models. Material is designed to address heat and mass transfer issues in nanotechnology, microfabrication, mems, cell therapies, bioartificial organs, as well as pharmacodynamic modeling of dynamic "omics" datasets. 
1198:This course is designed to prepare a biomedical engineering student with the survey tools to understand key components in modern biotechnologies. Fundamental concepts, theory, design, operation, and analysis of the most common biotechnologies in bioengineering will be presented. PHYS 117 or 119. 
1199:A study in the special fields under the direction of the faculty. Offered as needed for presenting material not normally available in regular BMME courses. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
1200:Opportunity for hands-on faculty mentored research project in biomedical engineering. Approved plan of work required with significant independent research culminating in a final paper and presentation at an appropriate venue. Departmental approval required. Course may not be repeated. 
1201:A firm understanding of the principles of mechanics is an important foundation to biomechanics. This course builds upon what was learned in BMME 405 by providing a deep understanding of the mechanics of materials with applications to the strength of the bone, implant analysis, and testing of biological materials. 
1202:Focus on the mechanical, chemical, and biocompatibility considerations of any material (e.g., metal, ceramic, or polymer) designed to interface with the body. Various applications of biomaterials are presented and analyzed, including femoral implants and vascular grafts, in order to guide students in a semester-long design project. 
1203:Cells, tissues, organs, and organisms have been shaped through evolutionary processes to perform their functions in robust, reliable manners. This course investigates design principles and structure- function relationships of biomolecular networks. Emphasis will be placed on gene- and protein-circuits and their role in controlling cellular behavior and phenotype. 
1204:The structure, defects, thermodynamics, kinetics, and properties (mechanical, electrical, thermal, and magnetic) of matter (metals, ceramics, polymers, and composites) will be considered. 
1205:This is an introduction to methods of automatic computation of specific relevance to biomedical problems. Sampling theory, analog-to-digital conversion, digital filtering will be explored in depth. 
1206:Physical and mathematical foundations of ultrasonic, optical, and magnetic resonance imaging systems in application to medical diagnostics. Each imaging modality is examined, highlighting critical system characteristics: underlying physics of the imaging system, including mechanisms of data generation and acquisition; image creation; and relevant image processing methods, such as noise reduction. 
1207:Student multidisciplinary teams work with local medical professionals to define specific medical device concepts for implementation. 
1208:Device prototypes designed in the first course in series. Good manufacturing practices; process validation; FDA quality system regulations; design verification and validation; regulatory approval planning; and intellectual property protection. 
1209:Overview of medical imaging systems using ionizing radiation. Interaction of radiation with matter. Radiation production and detection. Radiography systems and applications. Tomography. PET and SPECT systems and applications. 
1210:Topics include basic electronic circuit design, analysis of medical instrumentation circuits, physiologic transducers (pressure, flow, bioelectric, temperate, and displacement). This course includes a laboratory where the student builds biomedical devices. 
1211:Mathematics relevant to image processing and analysis using real image computing objectives and provided by computer implementations. 
1212:Introduction to digital computers for real-time processing and control of signals and systems. Programming input and output devices using C and assembly language is stressed. Case studies are used to present software design strategies for real-time laboratory systems. BMME 201; co-requisite, BMME 351. 
1213:Problems of interfacing computers with biomedical systems are studied. Students collaborate to develop a new biomedical instrument. Projects have included process control, data acquisition, disk systems interfaces, and DMW interfaces between interconnected computers. 
1214:This course teaches human factors engineering, risk assessment, and quality management systems. At the end of the course, students will be able to apply their knowledge to their senior design project and test for a six sigma green belt certification. 
1215:Research honors course. Prior approval needed from the chair or associate chair of the program for topic selection and faculty research mentor. Minimum GPA requirement, written report, and abstract requirements as set forth by the honors program. 
1216:Research honors thesis continuation with required GPA, research topic selection with approved faculty mentor. Written abstract and report per honors program guidelines submitted by specific deadlines. 
1217:Conceptual prelude and preparation to BMME 698, in which the theoretical and practical knowledge acquired during the undergraduate tenure is applied to develop a solution to a real-world problem. 
1218:Implementation phase of the senior design experience. Students apply the theoretical and practical knowledge they have acquired in their previous seven semesters to the design and implementation of a solution to a real-world problem. 
1219:Required preparation, two semesters of calculus (such as MATH 231, 232). Fundamentals of probability; discrete and continuous distributions; functions of random variables; descriptive statistics; fundamentals of statistical inference, including estimation and hypothesis testing. 
1220:Required preparation, knowledge of basic descriptive statistics. Major topics include elementary probability theory, probability distributions, estimation, tests of hypotheses, chi-squared procedures, regression, and correlation. 
1221:This course introduces the basic concepts and methods of statistics with emphasis on applications in the experimental biological sciences. Students should have a basic understanding of algebra and arithmetic. No previous background in probability or statistics is required, nor is experience with statistical computing. 
1222:Required preparation, three semesters of calculus (such as MATH 231, 232, 233). Introduction to probability; discrete and continuous random variables; expectation theory; bivariate and multivariate distribution theory; regression and correlation; linear functions of random variables; theory of sampling; introduction to estimation and hypothesis testing. 
1223:Distribution of functions of random variables; Helmert transformation theory; central limit theorem and other asymptotic theory; estimation theory; maximum likelihood methods; hypothesis testing; power; Neyman-Pearson Theorem, likelihood ratio, score, and Wald tests; noncentral distributions. students lacking the prerequisite. 
1224:Principles of study design, descriptive statistics, sampling from finite and infinite populations, inferences about location and scale. Both distribution-free and parametric approaches are considered. Gaussian, binomial, and Poisson models, one-way and two-way contingency tables. 
1225:Required preparation, BIOS 662. Matrix-based treatment of regression, one-way and two-way ANOVA, and ANCOVA, emphasizing the general linear model and hypothesis, as well as diagnostics and model building. Reviews matrix algebra. Includes statistical power for linear models and binary response regression methods. 
1226:Academic credit for approved internship experience. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1227:Directed readings or laboratory study. May be taken more than once. Two to six laboratory hours a week. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
1228:Access to SAS, Excel required. Permission of instructor for nonmajors. Introductory course in probability, data analysis, and statistical inference designed for B.S.P.H. biostatistics students. Topics include sampling, descriptive statistics, probability, confidence intervals, tests of hypotheses, chi-square distribution, 2-way tables, power, sample size, ANOVA, non-parametric tests, correlation, regression, survival analysis. 
1229:Required preparation, previous or concurrent course in applied statistics. Permission of instructor for nonmajors. Introduction to use of computers to process and analyze data, concepts and techniques of research data management, and use of statistical programming packages and interpretation. Focus is on use of SAS for data management and reporting. 
1230:Arrangements to be made with the faculty in each case. A course for students of public health who wish to make a study of some special problem in the statistics of the life sciences and public health. 
1231:Arrangements to be made with the faculty in each case. A course for students of public health who wish to make a study of some special problem in the statistics of the life sciences and public health. 
1232:Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Required preparation, basic familiarity with statistical software (preferably SAS able to do multiple linear regression) and introductory biostatistics, such as BIOS 600. Continuation of BIOS 600. Analysis of experimental and observational data, including multiple regression and analysis of variance and covariance. 
1233:Fundamental principles and methods of sampling populations, with emphasis on simple, random, stratified, and cluster sampling. Sample weights, nonsampling error, and analysis of data from complex designs are covered. Practical experience through participation in the design, execution, and analysis of a sampling project. students lacking the prerequisite. 
1234:Introduction to the analysis of categorized data: rates, ratios, and proportions; relative risk and odds ratio; Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel procedure; survivorship and life table methods; linear models for categorical data. Applications in demography, epidemiology, and medicine. instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
1235:Application of multivariate techniques, with emphasis on the use of computer programs. Multivariate analysis of variance, multivariate multiple regression, weighted least squares, principal component analysis, canonical correlation, and related techniques. 
1236:Analysis of variance and multiple linear regression course at the level of BIOS 545 or 663 required. Familiarity with matrix algebra recommended. Univariate and multivariate repeated measures ANOVA, GLM for longitudinal data, linear mixed models. Estimation and inference, maximum and restricted maximum likelihood, fixed and random effects. 
1237:Statistical concepts in basic public health study designs: cross-sectional, case-control, prospective, and experimental (including clinical trials). Validity, measurement of response, sample size determination, matching and random allocation methods. 
1238:Provides a foundation and training for working with data from clinical trials or research studies. Topics: issues in study design, collecting quality data, using SAS and SQL to transform data, typical reports, data closure and export, and working with big data. instructor for students lacking the prerequisite. 
1239:Source and interpretation of demographic data; rates and ratios, standardization, complete and abridged life tables; estimation and projection of fertility, mortality, migration, and population composition. 
1240:Required preparation, three semesters of calculus. Introduction to probability; discrete and continuous random variables; combinatorics; expectation; random sums, multivariate distributions; functions of random variables; theory of sampling; convergence of sequences, power series, types of convergence, L'Hopital's rule, differentiable functions, Lebesgue integration, Fubini's theorem, convergence theorems, complex variables, Laplace transforms, inversion formulas. 
1241:Distribution of functions of random variables; central limit theorem and other asymptotic theory; estimation theory; hypothesis testing; Neyman- Pearson Theorem, likelihood ratio, score, and Wald tests; noncentral distributions. Advanced problems in statistical inferences, including information inequality, best unbiased estimators, Bayes estimators, asymptotically efficient estimation, nonparametric estimation and tests, simultaneous confidence intervals. students lacking the prerequisite. 
1242:Introduction to concepts and techniques used in the analysis of time to event data, including censoring, hazard rates, estimation of survival curves, regression techniques, applications to clinical trials. students lacking the prerequisite. 
1243:Field/topical/research seminar. Instructors use this course to offer instruction in particular topics or approaches. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 6 total completions. 
1244:Field visits to, and evaluation of, major nonacademic biostatistical programs in the Research Triangle area. Field fee: $25. 
1245:Directed research. Written and oral reports required. 
1246:Directed research. Written and oral reports required. 
1247:This entry-level medical simulation course focuses on understanding the integration of simulation technology into clinical education, patient safety, and research applications to include the teamwork and communication skills related to these applications. 
1248:Emphasizes topics of current research interest relative to the genesis of environmentally caused and genetically based birth defects. One two- hour session per week (evening). 
1249:Permission of the instructor. Primarily for graduate students. Enrollment by availability of space and material. 
1250:Permission of the instructor. For students of oral surgery, surgical residents, and graduate students. 
1251:Comprehensive introduction to cell structure, function, and transformation. permission of the instructor. 
1252:Comprehensive introduction to cell structure, function, and transformation. permission of the instructor. 
1253:Clinical cases are used to introduce the study of physiology. Students develop learning objectives and research selected topics in health and disease. Final class project is a group endeavor. 
1254:A course in human physiology exploring physiological processes from molecular to organ systems levels including regulation and interrelationships. Five lecture hours a week. BIOL 252. 
1255:Permission of the instructor. Directed readings or laboratory study on a selected topic. Final written report required in each term. At least three hours of independent work per week for each unit of credit. 
1256:Comprehensive introduction to cell structure, function, and transformation. permission of the instructor. 
1257:Comprehensive introduction to cell structure, function, and transformation. permission of the instructor. 
1258:The goal of this seminar is to develop tools for extracting information from or finding flaws in news reports and popular science writing. Group work on such issues as biomass fuels, the hydrogen economy, and other alternative energy sources will develop an understanding of their economic and environmental impact. 
1259:Students will learn about ways in which scientists think. They will explore how new knowledge is generated and examine the impact of science on society. Topics to be considered include the nature of gases, atomic structure and radioactivity, and molecules and the development of new materials. 
1260:Bringing ideas to fruition is a multistep process. In the present knowledge economy, high value is placed on individuals who both formulate new concepts and bring them to reality. This process requires a number of important skills that will be explored in this course. 
1261:A course engaging the topic of nuclear chemistry on the introductory chemistry course level (e.g., CHEM 101/102). Atomic structure, nuclear fission, and nuclear fusion processes will be introduced to provide the background necessary to understand applications of the processes. Applications discussed will include power generation, medical treatments, weapons, and more. 
1262:Special topics course. Content will vary each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1263:The first course in a two-semester sequence. See also CHEM 102. Atomic and molecular structure, stoichiometry and conservation of mass, thermochemical changes and conservation of energy. 
1264:Computerized data collection, scientific measurement, sensors, thermochemistry, spectroscopy, and conductometric titration. Laptop computer required. One four-hour laboratory a week. 
1265:C- or better required in CHEM 101. The course is the second in a two- semester sequence. See also CHEM 101. Gases, intermolecular forces, solutions, reaction rates, chemical equilibria including acid-base chemistry, thermochemistry, electrochemistry. 
1266:Computerized data collection, gas laws, intermolecular forces, redox reactions, chemical kinetics, and acid-base titrations. Laptop computer required. One four-hour laboratory a week. 102H. 
1267:C- or better required in CHEM 101. The course is the second in a two- semester sequence. See also CHEM 101. Gases, intermolecular forces, solutions, reaction rates, chemical equilibria including acid-base chemistry, thermochemistry, electrochemistry. 
1268:CHEM 190. Special Topics in Chemistry. 3 Credits. An undergraduate seminar course that is designated to be a participatory intellectual adventure on an advanced, emergent, and stimulating topic within a selected discipline in chemistry. This course does not count as credit towards the chemistry major. 
1269:Coregistration in CHEM 200 and 101L fulfills the physical and life science with a laboratory requirement (PX). This course helps students understand the chemistry behind important societal issues and the consequences of actions aimed at addressing the issues. Students who have taken CHEM 200 cannot take CHEM 101 for credit. 
1270:C- or better required in prerequisite. Analytical separations, chromatographic methods, spectrophotometry, acid-base equilibria and titrations, fundamentals of electrochemistry. 
1271:Applications of separation and spectrophotometric techniques to organic compounds, including some of biological interest. One three-hour laboratory a week. Students may not receive credit for both CHEM 241L and CHEM 245L. 241H. 
1272:C- or better required in prerequisite. Analytical separations, chromatographic methods, spectrophotometry, acid-base equilibria and titrations, fundamentals of electrochemistry. 
1273:Applications of separation and spectrophotometric techniques to samples from the real world, including some of biological interest. Final portion of course consists of group research projects presented to the Department of Chemistry in poster session format. Honors equivalent of CHEM 241L. Students may not receive credit for both CHEM 241L and CHEM 245L. One three-hour laboratory each week. 
1274:C- or better required in prerequisite. Chemical periodicity, introductory atomic theory and molecular orbital theory, structure and bonding in solids, descriptive nonmetal chemistry, structures and reactions of transition metal complexes, applications of inorganic complexes and materials. 
1275:C- or better required in prerequisite. Molecular structure and its determination by modern physical methods, correlation between structure and reactivity and the theoretical basis for these relationships, classification of reaction types exhibited by organic molecules using as examples molecules of biological importance. 
1276:C- or better required in prerequisite. Molecular structure and its determination by modern physical methods, correlation between structure and reactivity and the theoretical basis for these relationships, classification of reaction types exhibited by organic molecules using as examples molecules of biological importance. 
1277:C- or better required in prerequisite. Continuation of CHEM 261, with particular emphasis on the chemical properties of organic molecules of biological importance. 
1278:Continuation of CHEM 241L or 245L with particular emphasis on organic chemistry synthesis protocols, separation techniques, and compound characterization using modern spectroscopic instrumentation. This course serves as an organic chemistry laboratory for premedical and predental students. Students may not receive credit for both CHEM 262L and CHEM 263L. One three-hour laboratory each week. corequisite, CHEM 262 or 262H. 
1279:C- or better required in prerequisite. Continuation of CHEM 261, with particular emphasis on the chemical properties of organic molecules of biological importance. 
1280:Permission of the instructor for students lacking CHEM 262H. Continuation of CHEM 245L with particular emphasis on organic chemistry synthesis protocols, separation techniques, and compound characterization using modern spectroscopic instrumentation. An organic chemistry laboratory for premedical and predental students. Honors equivalent of CHEM 262L. Students may not receive credit for both CHEM 262L and CHEM 263L. One three-hour laboratory each week. corequisite, CHEM 262H. 
1281:Permission of the instructor. GPA above 3.0 required. Experience includes academic mentoring for small groups, preparing review sessions, and facilitating lecture hall activity. Direct instruction in pedagogy, leadership, communication, and group dynamics. Does not fulfill chemistry major requirements. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1282:Required preparation, one CHEM course 420 or higher and permission of the instructor. For advanced chemistry and applied sciences majors conducting on-campus research. Students prepare a report for their faculty supervisor and present their work at a poster session. May count only once as a chemistry elective. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
1283:Permission of the director of undergraduate studies. Literature or laboratory work equivalent of one to three hours each week. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
1284:Permission of the director of undergraduate studies. Literature or laboratory work equivalent of one to three hours each week. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
1285:Weekly meetings complement research carried out under CHEM 395H. Expands students' exposure to specialized areas of research through guided readings and seminars with invited speakers. Aids students in preparing their research for evaluation. CHEM 395H and 397H together can contribute no more than nine total hours toward graduation. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 2 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1286:Permission of the instructor. This course explores secondary school chemical education through current chemical education theory and classroom teaching. Students will develop a comprehensive approach to teaching chemistry content through student-centered activities. 
1287:Chemical structure and nomenclature of macromolecules, synthesis of polymers, characteristic polymer properties. CHEM 262 or 262H, and 262L or 263L. 
1288:Synthesis and reactions of polymers; various polymerization techniques. 
1289:Polymerization and characterization of macromolecules in solution. 
1290:Polymer dynamics, networks and gels. 
1291:Solid-state properties of polymers; polymer melts, glasses and crystals. 
1292:The study of cellular processes including catalysts, metabolism, bioenergetics, and biochemical genetics. The structure and function of biological macromolecules involved in these processes is emphasized. 
1293:The study of cellular processes including catalysts, metabolism, bioenergetics, and biochemical genetics. The structure and function of biological macromolecules involved in these processes is emphasized. 
1294:Structure of DNA and methods in biotechnology; DNA replication and repair; RNA structure, synthesis, localization and transcriptional reputation; protein structure/function, biosynthesis, modification, localization, and degradation. 
1295:Biological membranes, membrane protein structure, transport phenomena; metabolic pathways, reaction themes, regulatory networks; metabolic transformations with carbohydrates, lipids, amino acids, and nucleotides; regulatory networks, signal transduction. 
1296:Permission of the instructor for undergraduates. Diffusion, sedimentation, electrophoresis, flow. Basic principles, theoretical methods, experimental techniques, role in biological function, current topics. 
1297:Spectroscopy, electroanalytical chemistry, chromatography, thermal methods of analysis, signal processing. (or 262H) and 480 (or 481). 
1298:Experiments in spectroscopy, electroanalytical chemistry, chromatography, thermal methods of analysis, and signal processing. One four-hour laboratory a week and one one-hour lecture. 
1299:Theory and applications of equilibrium and nonequilibrium separation techniques. Extraction, countercurrent distribution, gas chromatography, column and plane chromatographic techniques, electrophoresis, ultra- centrifugation, and other separation methods. 
1300:Basic principles of electrochemical reactions, electroanalytical voltammetry as applied to analysis, the chemistry of heterogeneous electron transfers, and electrochemical instrumentation. 
1301:Optical spectroscopic techniques for chemical analysis including conventional and laser-based methods. Absorption, fluorescence, scattering and nonlinear spectroscopies, instrumentation and signal processing. 
1302:Principles and applications of biospecific binding as a tool for performing selective chemical analysis. 
1303:Fundamental theory of gaseous ion chemistry, instrumentation, combination with separation techniques, spectral interpretation for organic compounds, applications to biological and environmental chemistry. 
1304:Introduction to micro and nanofabrication techniques, fluid and molecular transport at the micrometer to nanometer length scales, applications of microtechnology to chemical and biochemical measurements. 
1305:Introduction to symmetry and group theory; bonding, electronic spectra, and reaction mechanisms of coordination complexes; organometallic complexes, reactions, and catalysis; bioinorganic chemistry. 
1306:Chemical applications of symmetry and group theory, crystal field theory, molecular orbital theory. The first third of the course, corresponding to one credit hour, covers point symmetry, group theoretical foundations and character tables. 
1307:A detailed discussion of ligand field theory and the techniques that rely on the theoretical development of ligand field theory, including electronic spectroscopy, electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy, and magnetism. 
1308:Introduction to the physical techniques used for the characterization and study of inorganic compounds. Topics typically include nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, vibrational spectroscopy, diffraction, Mossbauer spectroscopy, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy, and inorganic electrochemistry. 
1309:Modern topics in organic chemistry. 
1310:Modern topics in organic chemistry. 
1311:Kinetics and thermodynamics, free energy relationships, isotope effects, acidity and basicity, kinetics and mechanisms of substitution reactions, one- and two-electron transfer processes, principles and applications of photochemistry, organometallic reaction mechanisms. 
1312:A survey of fundamental organic reactions including substitutions, additions, elimination, and rearrangements; static and dynamic stereochemistry; conformational analysis; molecular orbital concepts and orbital symmetry. 
1313:Spectroscopic methods of analysis with emphasis on elucidation of the structure of organic molecules: 1H and 13C NMR, infrared, ultraviolet, ORD-CD, mass, and photoelectron spectroscopy. 
1314:Modern synthetic methods and their application to the synthesis of complicated molecules. 
1315:Structure and reactivity of organometallic complexes and their role in modern catalytic reactions 
1316:Knowledge of differential and integral calculus. Chemical applications of higher mathematics. students lacking the prerequisite. 
1317:Permission of the instructor. A survey of materials processing and characterization used in fabricating microelectronic devices. Crystal growth, thin film deposition and etching, and microlithography. 
1318:The structural and energetic nature of surface states and sites, experimental surface measurements, reactions on surfaces including bonding to surfaces and adsorption, interfaces. 
1319:Does not carry credit toward graduate work in chemistry or credit toward any track of the B.S. degree with a major in chemistry. Application of thermodynamics to biochemical processes, enzyme kinetics, properties of biopolymers in solution. 
1320:Thermodynamics, kinetic theory, chemical kinetics. corequisites, MATH 383 and PHYS 117; C- or better required in chemistry course prerequisites. 
1321:Experiments in physical chemistry. Solving thermodynamic and quantum mechanical problems using computer simulations. One three-hour laboratory and a single one-hour lecture each week. 
1322:Introduction to quantum mechanics, atomic and molecular structure, spectroscopy, statistical mechanics. 
1323:Experiments in physical chemistry. One four-hour laboratory each week. 
1324:Thermodynamics, followed by an introduction to the classical and quantum statistical mechanics and their application to simple systems. The section on thermodynamics can be taken separately for one hour credit. 
1325:Experimental and theoretical aspects of atomic and molecular reaction dynamics. 
1326:Introduction to the principles of quantum mechanics. Approximation methods, angular momentum, simple atoms and molecules. 
1327:Interaction of radiation with matter; selection rules; rotational, vibrational, and electronic spectra of molecules; laser based spectroscopy and nonlinear optical effects. 
1328:Applications of quantum mechanics to chemistry. Molecular structure, time-dependent perturbation theory, interaction of radiation with matter. 
1329:Applications of statistical mechanics to chemistry. Ensemble formalism, condensed phases, nonequilibrium processes. 
1330:Various polymerization techniques and characterization methods. One four-hour laboratory each week. 
1331:An introduction to chemical techniques and research procedures of use in the fields of protein and nucleic acid chemistry. Two four-hour laboratories and one one-hour lecture a week. 
1332:Introduction to microscopy techniques utilized in the analysis of chemical and biological samples with a focus on light, electron, and atomic force microscopy. Permission of instructor required for those missing prerequisites. 
1333:A laboratory devoted to synthesis and characterization of inorganic complexes and materials. A four-hour synthesis laboratory, a characterization laboratory outside of the regular laboratory period, and a one-hour recitation each week. 
1334:An advanced synthesis laboratory focused on topics in organic chemistry. A four-hour synthesis laboratory, a characterization laboratory outside of the regular laboratory period, and a one-hour recitation each week. 
1335:CHEM 395 must have been in the same laboratory as 692H. Senior majors only. Required of all candidates for honors or highest honors. 
1336:An issue encountered in managing urban communities and environmental quality concerns rights to land ownership. Environmental regulations limit people's rights to use land as they see fit. This seminar explores processes whereby rights to land, water, and environmental resources of the United States have been acquired, reserved, distributed, and regulated. 
1337:How is "community" understood as a concept used to describe towns, universities, and other forms of social interaction? This seminar introduces students to urban planning, higher education, and social capital and provides students with opportunities to explore and document local leaders' views concerning the towns' futures and the University's growth. 
1338:This first-year seminar will expose students to the complex dynamics of race, ethnicity, and gender and how these have shaped the American city since 1945. 
1339:Explores the changing nature of the American job and the transformative forces from global trade and outsourcing to corporate restructuring and new skill demands that have influenced this change. 
1340:The seminar seeks to understand the current realities of North Carolina's inner-city communities in the context of their historical evolution and the current proposals for revitalization. Each student selects one city or town for a case study. 
1341:How can the sustainability of cities and their ability to meet the needs of disadvantaged groups be improved? In this seminar students will look at the evolution of cities throughout history to find out how they have coped with threats to sustainability. 
1342:After studying the forces that have produced the American urban landscape, we will explore the city from the normative perspectives of urban historians, planners and architects, social scientists, social critics, and futurists, as a way for each student to develop her/his own perspective about what a "good city" might be. 
1343:After studying the forces that have produced the American urban landscape, we will explore the city from the normative perspectives of urban historians, planners and architects, social scientists, social critics, and futurists, as a way for each student to develop her/his own perspective about what a "good city" might be. 
1344:Using directed readings, participative class exercises, and cases that cut across developed and developing countries, this seminar will focus on how global pressures and economic integration is changing local economies. 
1345:Special topics conent vary each semester Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1346:Introduction to the evolution of cities in history, to the concept of urban morphology or form, and to the different elements or subsystems of the urban system and how they have changed over time. 
1347:Introduction to methods used for solving urban problems. Covers methods employed in subfields of planning to develop an ability to critically evaluate different techniques and approaches used within these disciplines. 
1348:This course examines site planning as a process of creating the built environment. A site planner considers many things, including site hydrology, topography, building form, access, and regulation. Students will review the theories of urban design that guide site planning, conduct a site analysis and propose a site plan. 
1349:Examines students' knowledge and understanding of social entrepreneurship as an innovative approach to addressing complex social needs. Affords students the opportunity to engage in a business planning exercise designed to assist them in establishing and launching a social purpose entrepreneurial venture. 
1350:An overview of science, social science, and humanities perspectives on community sustainability. 
1351:The impact of building on the environment and health will be examined by looking at the major areas of: land use planning, water resource use, energy, materials and indoor environment. 
1352:Studies the changing landscapes of contemporary urbanism. Emphasis on patterns of economic development, housing, and infrastructure in cities in a global context. (GHA) 
1353:Stresses the spatial analysis and modeling capabilities of organizing data within a geographic information system. (GISci) students lacking the prerequisite. 
1354: Credit. Provides the foundation of state and local government finance necessary to understand new developments in the provision of infrastructure for economic development. 
1355:This course explores the reciprocal connections between energy (production/conversion, distribution, and use), land use, environment, and transportation. Evaluation of federal, state, and local policies on energy conservation and alternative energy sources are emphasized. Students gain skills to analyze impacts, interdependencies, and uncertainties of various energy conservation measures and production technologies. 
1356:Examines shaping the urban built environments of the United States from the colonial era to present day. Critically examines forces that shaped our cities, and studies the values, ideals, and motivations underlying efforts to plan and direct physical development of American cities. 
1357:Introduces students to the political economy of poverty alleviation programs. Uses comparative cases to explore what types of projects, tasks, and environments lead to effective and equitable outcomes, and why. 
1358:Rigorous examination of real estate development from the entrepreneurial and public perspectives. Emphasis on risk management and the inherent uncertainties of development. The four dimensions of real estate are addressed: economic/market, legal/institutional, physical, and financial. 
1359:Intensive introduction to environmental management and policy, including environmental and health risks; policy institutions, processes, and instruments; policy analysis; and major elements of American environmental policy. Lectures and case studies. Three lecture hours per week. 
1360:Original research, fieldwork, readings, or discussion of selected planning issues under guidance of a member of the faculty. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
1361:Applied issues in the use of geographic information systems in terrain analysis, medical geography, biophysical analysis, and population geography. 
1362:This course permits full-time undergraduate students enrolled in the Department of City and Regional Planning who wish to pursue independent research or an independent project to do so under the direction of a member of the department faculty. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
1363:Fundamental characteristics of the urban transportation system as a component of urban structure. Methodologies for the analysis of transportation problems, planning urban transportation, and the evaluation of plans. 
1364:Alternative public urban transportation systems including mass transit, innovative transit services, and paratransit, examined from economic, land use, social, technical, and policy perspectives. 
1365:This graduate-level course examines the importance of multimodal transportation planning and provides a comprehensive overview of best planning practices to support increased walking and bicycling. 
1366:Integration of the structure, function, and change of ecosystems with a land use planning framework. How land use planning accommodates human use and occupancy within ecological limits to sustain long-term natural system integrity. 
1367:Lecture course on comparative urbanism and the global evolution of the city form. Examines values and ideals embedded in urban landscapes, seeking to understand how social, economic, and political forces have influenced the development of cities through history. 
1368:Permission of the instructor required for undergraduates. Examination of the environmental and health risks, policy institutions, processes, instruments, policy analysis, and major elements of American environmental policy. Lectures and case studies. 
1369:Permission of instructor needed for undergraduates. Introduces students in planning to issues related to diversity and inequality. Different aspects of diversity (e.g., gender, class, race, ethnicity, sexuality, nationality/ citizenship) will be explored. Examines the relationship between diversity and the unequal distribution of resources and life trajectories. 
1370:Permission of the instructor. Seminar on policy and planning approaches for providing improved community water and sanitation services in developed countries. Topics include the choice of appropriate technology and level of service, pricing, metering, and connection charges; cost recovery and targeting subsidies to the poor; water venting; community participation in the management and operation of water systems; and rent-seeking behavior in the provision of water supplies. 
1371:Design of public policy instruments as incentives for sustainable management of environmental resources and ecosystems, and comparison of the effects and effectiveness of alternative policies. 
1372:Permission of the instructor. Course explores effect of the global economy on national and community development, effect of environmental degradation processes on development, and strategies to guide social change. 
1373:Permission of the instructor. An overview of the subject matter and methods of investigation for the study of cities and regions. Presentations of original papers prepared by students. 
1374:The course offers a comparative perspective on the archaeology of ancient Egypt and Bronze Age Greece (3000-1100 BCE) exploring the public art produced by these two early Mediterranean societies: the Aegean Bronze Age palace centers of Crete and Mainland Greece and the territorial state of ancient Egypt. 
1375:The course offers a comparative perspective on the archaeology of ancient Egypt and Bronze Age Greece (3000-1100 BCE) exploring the public art produced by these two early Mediterranean societies: the Aegean Bronze Age palace centers of Crete and Mainland Greece and the territorial state of ancient Egypt. 
1376:Archaeology is all about the past, but it is embedded in the politics and realities of the present day. This course introduces students to the ethical, moral, and political dimensions of archaeological sites and artifacts, especially in situations where the meaning and stewardship of ancient artifacts is under dispute. 
1377:Archaeology is all about the past, but it is embedded in the politics and realities of the present day. This course introduces students to the ethical, moral, and political dimensions of archaeological sites and artifacts, especially in situations where the meaning and stewardship of ancient artifacts is under dispute. 
1378:This course surveys the archaeology of Palestine (modern Israel and Jordan) from the Persian period (ca. 586 BCE) to the Muslim conquest (640 CE). 
1379:An introduction to Mediterranean archaeology through the examination of archaeological sites from the Neolithic period (ca. 9000 BCE) to the Roman Empire (fourth century CE). The sites, geographic and cultural areas, and chronological periods of study vary depending on instructor. Does not satisfy classical archaeology major requirements. 
1380:An introduction to Mediterranean archaeology through the examination of archaeological sites from the Neolithic period (ca. 9000 BCE) to the Roman Empire (fourth century CE). The sites, geographic and cultural areas, and chronological periods of study vary depending on instructor. Does not satisfy classical archaeology major requirements. 
1381:A survey of the cultures of the ancient Near East, Mesopotamia, Anatolia (modern Turkey) and the Levant, from the first settled villages of the ninth millennium to the Persian conquest of Babylon in 539 BCE. 
1382:A survey of the archaeological remains of ancient Egypt, from the earliest settlements of the Neolithic period until the end of the New Kingdom. 
1383:A survey of the material culture of Greece, the Cyclades, and Crete from the Paleolithic period (ca. 50,000 years ago) until the end of the Bronze Age (ca. 1200 BCE). Primary focus will be the urbanized palatial centers that emerged in mainland Greece (Mycenaean) and the island of Crete (Minoan). 
1384:The historical development of the art and architecture of Greece from the Bronze Age through the Hellenistic period. 
1385:The historical development of the Italian peninsula as seen in its physical remains, with emphasis upon Etruscan and Roman sites. 
1386:An introduction to the history of Christian art in Italy and the eastern Mediterranean from the time of Constantine (ca. 300) to the end of the Byzantine Empire (fall of Constantinople in 1453). Major monuments and art forms will be studied with an emphasis on their historical and cultural context. 
1387:This course explores the archaeology of the Roman world between the eighth century BCE and the fifth century CE, focusing on issues of urbanization, trade and consumption, colonization, and the Roman army. 
1388:Required preparation, any introductory art history course or permission of the instructor. A chronological study of the main development of Greek sculpture, architecture and painting from the fifth to the first centuries BCE. 
1389:The arts of Rome, particularly architecture, sculpture, and painting, proceeded by a survey of Etruscan and Hellenic art and their influence on Rome. 
1390:Survey of the archaeology of the Hellenistic Mediterranean from the time of Alexander the Great until the Roman conquest (350-31 BCE), with emphasis on art and architecture of cities and sanctuaries. 
1391:This course examines the archaeological context of Greek religion, cults, and associated rituals from the Bronze Age until the Hellenistic period with emphasis on urban, rural, and panhellenic sanctuaries, and methods of approaching ancient religion and analyzing cult practices. 
1392:Special readings and research in a selected field or topic under the direction of a faculty member. Permission of the instructor and the Director of Undergraduate Studies. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1393:Systematic introduction to archaeological field methods, especially survey and excavation techniques. 
1394:Permission of the department. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1395:CLAR 460. Greek Painting. 3 Credits. Required preparation, any intermediate art history course or permission of the instructor. A survey of the development of Greek art from geometric to Hellenistic painting through a study of Greek vases, mosaics, and mural paintings. 
1396:Required preparation, any intermediate art history course or permission of the instructor. A focused study of sculpture during the Archaic period in Greece. 
1397:Permission of the instructor. A focused study of Greek sculpture during the classical period. 
1398:Required preparation, any intermediate art history course or permission of the instructor. A focused study of Greek sculpture in the Hellenistic period. 
1399:A survey of Greek architectural development from the Dark Ages through the fourth century BCE. Special topics include the beginnings of monumental architecture, the development of the orders, and interpretations of individual architects in terms of style and proportions. students lacking the prerequisite. 
1400:The development of architecture in the Roman world from the ninth century BCE through the fourth century CE. The course focuses on the development of urbanism and the function, significance, and evolution of the main building types and their geographic distribution. students lacking the prerequisite. 
1401:Cross-cultural survey of the sociocultural and archaeological history of bathing from antiquity (500 BCE) to today, including bathing customs, baths, bathing images, and toilets of different cultures around the world. 
1402:Survey of Roman sculpture (200 BCE-300 CE), including portraiture, state reliefs, funerary monuments, and idealizing sculpture, with emphasis on style, iconography, and historical development of sculpture in its sociocultural, political, and religious contexts. 
1403:Survey of the material remains of the Western provinces of the Roman Empire, with attention to their historical context and significance. 
1404:Surveys Roman painting from 200 BCE to 300 CE, with emphasis on style, iconography, historical development of painting in its sociocultural, political, and religious contexts. Treats current debates in scholarship. 
1405:This course explores the archaeological and historical evidence for life in Egypt between 332 BCE and 324 CE, when the traditions of Pharaonic Egypt came together with the customs and culture of Greek and Roman conquerors to create a society incorporating the traditions of native Egyptian and Mediterranean peoples. 
1406:A survey of the principal sites, monuments, and art of the Iron Age Near East, ca. 1200 to 500 BCE. students lacking the prerequisite. 
1407:A survey of Anatolian archaeology from the third millennium through the sixth century BCE. 
1408:This course surveys the development of Greek material culture from 1200 to 500 BCE, exploring the origins of Greek art, architecture, cities, and sanctuaries in the Aegean and eastern Mediterranean. 
1409:This is a course on ancient synagogues in Palestine and the Diaspora from the Second Temple period to the seventh century CE. students lacking the prerequisite. 
1410:Required preparation, any course in classics, art history, or religious studies. Traces the development of mosaic technique from Greek antiquity through the Byzantine Middle Ages as revealed by archaeological investigations and closely analyzes how this dynamic medium conveyed meaning. 
1411:This course is an introduction to archaeological field methods and excavation techniques, through participation in archaeological excavation. 
1412:Survey of the art, architecture, and archaeology of the Italian peninsula before the Roman Republic, focusing primarily on Villanovan and Etruscan material culture and its relationship to contemporary cultural influences and crosscurrents in the Mediterranean in the first millennium BCE. 
1413:This first-year seminar will involve a close reading of Homer's Iliad and Odyssey and Vergil's Aeneid, and as a transition from Homer to Vergil, students will also read the tragedies of Sophocles from fifth-century Athens. 
1414:This first-year seminar will involve a close reading of Homer's Iliad and Odyssey and Vergil's Aeneid, and as a transition from Homer to Vergil, students will also read the tragedies of Sophocles from fifth-century Athens. 
1415:What can be learned from Greek tragedy about human nature? This first- year seminar will serve, first of all, as an introduction to Euripidean drama in its cultural and historical setting in fifth-century Athens. 
1416:This first-year seminar will consider what Greeks and Romans found funny, as well as how that humor translated (or not) into modern America. Students will write and present publicly a short comic play that represents the themes they identify and study in this seminar. 
1417:This first-year seminar studies parent-child relations, gender dynamics, and conflict in mythic families. Students will study these mythic families, looking especially at parent-child relations, gender dynamics, and conflict; the seminar will ask what aspects of ancient culture are revealed by these legends and stories. 
1418:This first-year seminar studies parent-child relations, gender dynamics, and conflict in mythic families. Students will study these mythic families, looking especially at parent-child relations, gender dynamics, and conflict; the seminar will ask what aspects of ancient culture are revealed by these legends and stories. 
1419:Translated works of three Greek historians--Herodotus, Thucydides, and Polybius--will provide a lens through which to explore the capacity for literature and other modes of representation to convey history. 
1420:A study of Greek and Roman depictions of non-Greeks and non-Romans in both literary and visual sources, with consideration of their origin, development, and social roles. 
1421:Are there rules for crafting a successful speech? The art and the mechanisms of persuasion will be considered both as a discipline with its own laws and practices and as a window into the values and debates that animate the public life of diverse civilizations. 
1422:In this first-year seminar, students will investigate what films set in classical Roman antiquity say about contemporary culture, and will also attempt to understand their impact on the shaping of our sense of history. 
1423:The goal of the first-year seminar will be to examine the architecture of ancient empires, beginning with that of Egypt and ending with the Roman Empire. Analysis will be particularly concerned with the use of architecture as an instrument of empire. 
1424:The goal of the first-year seminar will be to examine the architecture of ancient empires, beginning with that of Egypt and ending with the Roman Empire. Analysis will be particularly concerned with the use of architecture as an instrument of empire. 
1425:A study of this well-preserved ancient site provides an understanding of life in an Italian town during the early Roman empire. Students will study town planning, architecture, the arts, social organization, politics, entertainment, artisanry, commerce, and family life in this first-year seminar. 
1426:A study of this well-preserved ancient site provides an understanding of life in an Italian town during the early Roman empire. Students will study town planning, architecture, the arts, social organization, politics, entertainment, artisanry, commerce, and family life in this first-year seminar. 
1427:Special topics course; contents will vary each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1428:This course provides a systematic review of English grammar and style for students of Latin and Greek. 
1429:Introduction to the history, literature, religion, philosophy, science, art and architecture of Greece from Homer to Alexander the Great. Emphasis on primary sources. 
1430:Introduction to the history, literature, religion, philosophy, science, art and architecture of Greece from Homer to Alexander the Great. Emphasis on primary sources. 
1431:A survey of Roman civilization from the beginning to the late empire, dealing with history, literature, archaeology, philosophy and religion, technology, the economy, and social and political institutions. 
1432:A survey of Roman civilization from the beginning to the late empire, dealing with history, literature, archaeology, philosophy and religion, technology, the economy, and social and political institutions. 
1433:Introduction to the history and culture of ancient Greece, from the Bronze Age to the end of the Roman period, through field study of historical and archaeological sites in Greece. 
1434:Systematic study of the formation of words from Greek or Latin to build vocabulary and recognition. For medical terminology see CLAS 126. 
1435:Systematic study of the formation of medical terms from Greek and Latin roots, to build vocabulary and recognition. For general etymology see CLAS 125. 
1436:An introduction to the mythology of the ancient Greek and Roman world. Readings may include selections from Homer, Hesiod, Greek tragedy, and Vergil. 
1437:An introduction to the mythology of the ancient Greek and Roman world. Readings may include selections from Homer, Hesiod, Greek tragedy, and Vergil. 
1438:First-year honors students only. Study of classical epic and tragedy. Special emphasis on Homer's Iliad and Odyssey, and on the rethinking of Homeric epic in the tragedies of Aeschylus, Sophocles, and Euripides. 
1439:The physical setting and techniques of classical theater: tragedy, comedy, and other public spectacles in Greece and Rome. 
1440:Course examines law, religion, medicine, social practices, and ideologies in the lives of women in ancient Greece, from Homer to Hellenistic Egypt, using literature, art, and epigraphy. 
1441:Course examines law, religion, medicine, social practices, and ideologies in the lives of women in ancient Greece, from Homer to Hellenistic Egypt, using literature, art, and epigraphy. 
1442:Course examines the life of women in ancient Rome, from the first beginnings of the organized community in Rome through the early Empire, a period of about 900 years. Also explores aspects of the lives of women in provinces governed by Rome. 
1443:Course examines the life of women in ancient Rome, from the first beginnings of the organized community in Rome through the early Empire, a period of about 900 years. Also explores aspects of the lives of women in provinces governed by Rome. 
1444:Exploration of gender constructs, what it meant to be a woman or a man, in antiquity, as revealed in literary, historical, and archaeological sources. Readings from Homer, Euripides, Plato, Ovid, Virgil, Juvenal, Petronius, and other ancient authors. 
1445:An introduction to classical civilization through study of its most important period in Greece. Attention to history, philosophy, and art. Lecture and discussion. 
1446:An introduction to classical civilization through study of its most important period in Greece. Attention to history, philosophy, and art. Lecture and discussion. 
1447:An introduction to classical civilization through study of the period in which it spreads beyond mainland Greece to influence and partially merge with the cultures of the Near East, Egypt, and Rome. Attention to history, literature, philosophy, and art. Lectures and discussion. 
1448:An introduction to classical civilization through study of the literature, history, and art of one of the most crucial periods in Roman history. Lectures and discussion. 
1449:An introduction to classical civilization through study of the literature, history, and art of one of the most crucial periods in Roman history. Lectures and discussion. 
1450:An introduction to the civilization of the Roman Empire through study of the literature, history, and archaeology of its most colorful period. 
1451:Introduction to the literature and culture of the time of the Roman Emperor Constantine. Special attention to the fundamental cultural and social changes resulting from the Christianization of the Empire. 
1452:Study of athletics as a unifying force in ancient society, emphasizing the Olympic games and other religious festivals. Consideration of athletic professionalism, propaganda, and social trends using literary and archaeological sources. 
1453:Study of athletics as a unifying force in ancient society, emphasizing the Olympic games and other religious festivals. Consideration of athletic professionalism, propaganda, and social trends using literary and archaeological sources. 
1454:A survey of the state of technology in Rome during the first three centuries CE. Consideration of the interrelationships of technology and government, art, economics, and the quality of life. 
1455:The Iliad, the Odyssey. Hesiod, heroic and oral poetry. The archaeology of Homeric Greece, the study and influence of the Homeric poems in modern times. 
1456:An introduction to the three great tragedians of ancient Greece and to their historical and cultural context. Discussion is based on close readings of the English translations of selected plays by Aeschylus, Euripides, and Sophocles. 
1457:An introduction to the three great tragedians of ancient Greece and to their historical and cultural context. Discussion is based on close readings of the English translations of selected plays by Aeschylus, Euripides, and Sophocles. 
1458:Study of classical writers' influence on selected genres of English poetry. 
1459:Study of classical writers' influence on selected genres of English poetry. 
1460:Cicero and Caesar provide a window into the end of the Roman Republic, and the end of the Republic provides a privileged ground for applying different methodologies of research (e.g. history, literature, political science, philosophy, etc.). This interdisciplinary course includes student presentations. 
1461:Junior standing required. All departmental majors will jointly explore the history, archaeology, art, and literature of one or more geographical regions of the Mediterranean. Several oral and written reports; seminar format. 
1462:Students may suggest to the chair of the department topics for individual or group study. Advance arrangements required. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1463:The study in English translation of selections from Herodotus, Thucydides, Livy, Tacitus, and others, with consideration of their literary qualities and their readability as historians. 
1464:Introduction to Roman Law, public and private. On the basis of Roman texts in translation (or the original if desired), consideration of the principles of Roman constitutional law and the legal logic and social importance of Roman civil law. 
1465:Introduction to Roman Law, public and private. On the basis of Roman texts in translation (or the original if desired), consideration of the principles of Roman constitutional law and the legal logic and social importance of Roman civil law. 
1466:Permission of the department. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1467:Permission of the department. 
1468:Permission of the instructor. Graduate students and senior classics majors. Intensive interdisciplinary introduction to women in antiquity, using literary, historical, and visual materials. 
1469:Honors course for departmental majors in classical archaeology, classical civilization, Greek, and Latin. 
1470:Honors course for departmental majors in classical archaeology, classical civilization, Greek, and Latin. 
1471:Comprehensive coverage of basic grammar and syntax in two semesters, preparing students for reading Plato or Xenophon in GREK 203 (and with the instructor's permission, New Testament Greek in GREK 205). 
1472:Comprehensive coverage of basic grammar and syntax in two semesters, preparing students for reading Plato or Xenophon in GREK 203 (and with the instructor's permission, New Testament Greek in GREK 205). 
1473:Essential elements of the structure and vocabulary of modern Greek and aspects of Greek culture. Aural comprehension, speaking, reading, and writing are stressed in that order. Continues proficiency-based instruction, with emphasis on development and refinement of speaking, listening, reading, and writing skills including a review and continuation of grammar. 
1474:Continuation of GREK 121. 
1475:Review of fundamentals; reading in selected classical texts, such as Xenophon, Plato, Euripides, or others. 
1476:Continuation of GREK 203. 
1477:
1478:Substantial readings from Homer's Iliad or Odyssey, the remainder of the selected poems to be read in translation. 
1479:Readings from one or more Greek tragedies. 
1480:Readings in Herodotus, Thucydides, Plato, or other authors. With permission of the department, this course may be repeated for credit. 
1481:Readings in Sappho, Aeschylus, and other authors. With permission of the department, this course may be repeated for credit. 
1482:Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1483:students lacking the prerequisite. 
1484:Permission of the instructor. Survey of the major dialects of Classical Greek and study of their derivation from Common Greek. Texts include both literary and epigraphical sources from the eighth century BCE to the Hellenistic period. 
1485:
1486:
1487:
1488:
1489:Permission of the department. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 
1490:Permission of the department. 
1491:The basic elements of Latin grammar, practice in reading and writing Latin, introduction to Roman civilization through a study of the language of the Romans. Students may not receive credit for both LATN 101 and LATN 111. 
1492:The basic elements of Latin grammar, practice in reading and writing Latin, introduction to Roman civilization through a study of the language of the Romans. Students may not receive credit for both LATN 102 and LATN 111. 
1493:Permission of the instructor. Taught in conjunction with LATN 601 in the fall and independently in the spring. Introduction to Latin grammar (the material covered in LATN 101 and 102). Students meet for a fourth session dedicated to Latin prose composition. Students may not receive credit for both LATN 111 and LATN 101 or 102. 
1494:Review of fundamentals. Reading in selected texts such as Catullus, Ovid, Cicero, or others. Students may not receive credit for both LATN 203 and LATN 212. 
1495:Review of fundamentals. Reading in selected texts such as Catullus, Ovid, Cicero, or others. Students may not receive credit for both LATN 204 and LATN 212. 
1496:
1497:Systematic review of Latin grammar. Reading in Virgil's Aeneid, normally two books in Latin, and the remainder in translation. First-year and sophomore elective. 
1498:Careful reading of selected works of Cicero, exercises in Latin composition. 
1499:Systematic review of Latin grammar. Reading in Ovid's Metamorphoses, normally two books in Latin, and the remainder in translation. First-year and sophomore elective. 
1500:Readings in Caesar, Sallust, and/or Livy. 
1501:Readings in Plautus and Terence, or both. 
1502:Readings in Catullus and Horace. 
1503:Readings in Ovid, Tibullus, Propertius, or other poets. 
1504:This course studies Ovid, Propertius, and Tibullus, focusing on themes such as love, male-female relations, politics, war, Roman culture, and poetry itself. students lacking the prerequisite. 
1505:Readings in Lucretius and related works. 
1506:
1507:
1508:
1509:students lacking the prerequisite. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1510:Review of Latin grammar and idiom, exercises in composition, introduction to stylistics. 
1511:
1512:
1513:
1514:
1515:Survey of medieval Latin literature from its beginnings through the high Middle Ages. 
1516:Permission of the department. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1517:Permission of the department. 
1518:This course examines the historical and current development of social entrepreneurship as a field of study and practice, with particular attention to successful organizational communication strategies designed to solve community problems. 
1519:This course will explore communication models for collective leadership involving youth and adults in vulnerable communities. Partnering with local youth-focused organizations, students will work in teams to research and design community-based change projects. 
1520:Examines the historical emergence of work as a defining feature of contemporary life. The course asks, What is a "career"? How have neoliberalism and post-Fordism influenced understandings of work and career? How have changing conceptions of work influenced other aspects of life, including family, leisure, consumption, and self-identity? 
1521:In this course students will explore the possibilities of making political performances, or making performances political. We will be particularly concerned with how performance may contribute to processes of social change. 
1522:This course examines the question of what characterizes "Blackness" as it manifests through experience, history, and symbol in the United States, as well as the impact of African practices and identities upon blackness in the United States. The course is concerned with what has been termed the "black literary imagination. 
1523:Students will be engaged with multimedia, music, dance, and theater performances. We will explore the creative processes and cultural contexts of these performances and will compare the arts as a way of knowing the world to the creative processes of academic scholarship. 
1524:A performance-centered seminar focusing on the works of North Carolina writers, especially those who write fiction and poetry, and on researching, discussing, adapting, and performing that content. 
1525:This seminar explores how we come to understand what places are and how they are meaningful. We will look at places "rhetorically": how they were designed to persuade those who inhabit them, how we actually experience them, and how we make sense of them in our individual lives. 
1526:In this course, we explore the communication issues that arise within international contexts. Through the analysis of readings and films, we will delve into the contentious debates surrounding globalization and explore the ethical and social issues that arise within global forms of communicating and organizing. 
1527:This is a course in learning to think more critically, speak more persuasively, and argue more effectively by focusing on practical skill development in reasoning and debate. 
1528:How are surveillance technologies altering social life? This course will explore this question by mapping the complex ways that technologies and societies interact to produce security, fear, control, vulnerability, and/ or empowerment. 
1529:Special topics course. Content will vary each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1530:Special topics course. Content will vary each semester. 
1531:Addresses the many ways our communication--including language, discourse, performance, and media--reflects, creates, sustains, and transforms prevailing social and cultural practices. 
1532:An introduction to communication theory, research, and practice in a variety of interpersonal and organizational contexts. This course examines the role of communication in both personal and professional relationships. 
1533:An introduction to communication theory, research, and practice in a variety of interpersonal and organizational contexts. This course examines the role of communication in both personal and professional relationships. 
1534:Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Prerequisite for all production courses. Introduces students to basic tools, techniques, and conventions of production in audio, video, and film. 
1535:Restricted course. Dramatic writing workshop open only to students in the writing for the screen and stage minor. 
1536:An introduction to the critical analysis of film, television, advertising, video, and new media texts, contexts, and audiences. 
1537:An introduction to the critical analysis of film, television, advertising, video, and new media texts, contexts, and audiences. 
1538:This class explores the historical, social, political, and cultural significances of popular music as a communicative practice in the United States from 1950 to the present. 
1539:An introduction to the design, aesthetics, and analysis of various forms of digital media. Hands-on experience with different modes of creation, including graphics, web-based communication, and social media. 
1540:As the introductory course in performance studies, students will explore and experiment with performance as ritual, performance in everyday life, and the performance of literature. 
1541:As the introductory course in performance studies, students will explore and experiment with performance as ritual, performance in everyday life, and the performance of literature. 
1542:Examines the basic nature and importance of rhetoric and argumentation. Attention is devoted to interpreting the persuasive function of texts and their relation to modern forms of life. 
1543:Analysis of issues, use of evidence, reasoning, briefmaking, and refutation. Argumentative speeches and debates on legal cases and on current events. Designed for prospective law students, public policy students, speech teachers, and college debaters. 
1544:Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Introduction to the theory and practice of communication in the small group setting. Topics may include group development, conformity and deviation, gender, problem solving, and power and leadership. 
1545:Examines multiple relationships among gender, communication and culture. Explores how communication creates gender and shapes relationships and how communication reflects, sustains, and alters cultural views of gender. 
1546:Examines multiple relationships among gender, communication and culture. Explores how communication creates gender and shapes relationships and how communication reflects, sustains, and alters cultural views of gender. 
1547:The material, processes, and procedures of audio, video, and film production; emphasis on the control of those elements of convention that define form in the appropriate medium. Lecture and laboratory hours. in COMM 130; permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
1548:Historical exploration of the sociocultural import of communication technologies, from the introduction of the telegraph in the mid-1800s through current implications of the Internet and various digital devices. 
1549:An introduction to some key connections between American film history and cultural history since 1965, most of which remain backbones of United States film culture to this day. 
1550:This course addresses the relationship between performance and power, focusing on topics concerned with the potential for performance to contribute to social change. 
1551:Introduces students to performance as a way of studying culture in all of its creative, dynamic forms, including family stories, joking, rituals, and practices of everyday life. The course emphasizes field methods and experiential research. 
1552:Study of a variety of literary texts (lyric, epic, dramatic) through the medium of performance. 
1553:Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Examines contemporary theory and practice of influencing others' attitudes, beliefs, and actions. Focuses particularly on analyzing and developing persuasive messages. 
1554:Introduction to basic paradigms of thinking about cultural difference, encouraging students to examine how these paradigms shape how we think, act, and imagine ourselves/others as members of diverse cultures. 
1555:Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. The course explores the historical and theoretical developments in the research and practice of organizational communication. 
1556:Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. The course explores the historical and theoretical developments in the research and practice of organizational communication. 
1557:An introduction to screenwriting for film and television. 
1558:Students practice and learn the craft of narrative, short film writing by conceptualizing, outlining, writing, and rewriting three short film scripts. They include one three-minute silent, one five-minute script with dialogue, and one 15-minute script with dialogue. 
1559:Students complete the feature-length screenplay started in COMM 330 by finishing and rewriting it in a workshop setting. All students must have already completed an outline and the first 15 to 17 pages of their work. 
1560:Students in this class will live the life of a writing staff on a just-picked- up, fictional, one-hour television series. As if on a real series, they will individually and cooperatively create story ideas, treatments, and outlines, as well as write scenes, acts, and entire scripts. 
1561:A variety of feature films (both domestic and foreign) are screened in class and analyzed from a storytelling perspective. Emphasis is on the range of possibilities the screenwriter and film director face in the process of managing the audience's emotional involvement in a story. 
1562:This course examines the representations of women in contemporary American film and also considers women as producers of film. 
1563:Introduces students to the history, methods, and central intellectual questions of cultural studies. 
1564:This course is a multi-disciplinary analysis of the phenomena of terrorism and political violence, their history, causes, the threat they pose, and what steps the United States can take in response. 
1565:Explores how each of these forms of performance communicates meaning and feeling and points to possibility. Students develop performances in each mode, informed by readings in anthropology and directing theory. students lacking the prerequisite. 
1566:This course provides a performance-based instruction in the development of mask, puppet, and performing object skills. or PHYA 224. 
1567:This course examines the theory and practice of argument and deliberation in communication studies, drawing from resources in rhetorical studies, informal logic, and argumentation. Intended for pre- law, public policy and other students interested in argumentation. 
1568:Explores the discourse of dissident voices in American society, particularly as they speak about grievances pertaining to race, gender, the environment; focuses on rhetorical strategies that initiate and sustain social movements. 
1569:Examines recurrent themes in the rhetoric of significant Southerners and important campaigns. Considers both the rhetoric of the establishment and the rhetoric of change. 
1570:Explores rhetorical means of citizen influence of practices affecting our natural and human environment; also, study of communication processes and dilemmas of redress of environmental grievances in communities and workplace. 
1571:Explores philosophical assumptions and social values expressed by advocates of war and peace through a critical examination of such rhetorical acts as speeches, essays, film, literature, and song. 
1572:A special topics course on a selected aspect of communication studies. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1573:Permission of the department. Majors only. 2.5 cumulative grade point average required. Individualized study closely supervised by a faculty advisor and by the departmental coordinator of internships. Cannot count toward the COMM major. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1574:Permission of the department. Majors only. 3.0 cumulative grade point average and 3.5 communication studies grade point average required. For communication studies majors who wish to pursue independent research projects or reading programs under the supervision of a selected instructor. Intensive individual research on a problem designed by instructor and student in conference. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1575:This course explores theories of criticism and symbolic action through readings, lecture, and practical criticism of literature, media, discourse, and other symbolic acts. 
1576:An introduction to European modern and contemporary philosophy, from the enlightenment to contemporary postmodernism. 
1577:Examination of Freudian thought within and across historical contexts, with special attention to the centrality of gender and sexuality in the operations of the "human organism. 
1578:Growth in technologies, more frequent travel, and movements of products and people across the borders of nation states change concepts of family and community. Foregrounded by these realities, this course combines theories of family and communication with documentation of lived experience to interrogate family communication patterns in contemporary culture. 
1579:Growth in technologies, more frequent travel, and movements of products and people across the borders of nation states change concepts of family and community. Foregrounded by these realities, this course combines theories of family and communication with documentation of lived experience to interrogate family communication patterns in contemporary culture. 
1580:This upper level seminar develops a critical perspective on work, labor, and professional life within the global context. Throughout, we will engage in moral and philosophical debates about the status of labor and the meanings of work in our daily lives. 
1581:This viewing and research-intensive course examines the history of American narrative film through the screenwriter's experience, using a decade-by-decade approach to examine the political, social, global, psychological, religious, and cultural influences on the art, process, and careers of screenwriters. 
1582:Advanced analysis and application of the principles and methods of audio production. COMM 130; permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisite. 
1583:Course provides an overview of theories of visual culture. We apply these theories to better understand contemporary visual media and technologies, along with the everyday media practices they support. students lacking the prerequisite. 
1584:Open only to students in the writing for the screen and stage minor. Conceiving and outlining a feature-length screenplay. 
1585:Advanced introduction to foundational work in memory and performance studies, emphasizing theory and practice of various forms of remembering. 
1586:Advanced introduction to foundational work in memory and performance studies, emphasizing theory and practice of various forms of remembering. 
1587:Examines how the United States Black experience is constituted in and through performance across a range of cultural contexts including the antebellum South, Reconstruction, the Harlem Renaissance, the Black Aesthetic, and contemporary urban life. 
1588:Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Examination of communication processes and cultural significance of film, television, and other electronic media. 
1589:Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Course combines reading about and viewing of 1940s and 1950s films combining narrative techniques of storytelling, novels, and the stage with purely filmic uses of spectacle, light, editing, and image. 
1590:The starting point for this course, chronologically and conceptually, is the emergence of popular media technology. Our purview includes transformative innovations in mediated communication, such as telephony and e-mail, alongside familiar media technologies such as televisions and computers. 
1591:A study of the electronic media as a feedback mechanism for community organization and social change. A variety of broadcast and nonbroadcast uses of the media are studied. 
1592:This course examines processes of creating and performing solo work. Students engage a variety of performances: autobiographical, representation of the lives of other/s, and exploration of cultural or political ideas. 208; permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisite. 
1593:Theory and practice of collaborative performance, emphasizing image, intertextual adaptation, site-specific and installation work, avant-garde traditions, and the play of time and space. 
1594:Theory and practice of collaborative performance, emphasizing image, intertextual adaptation, site-specific and installation work, avant-garde traditions, and the play of time and space. 
1595:This course engages the theory and embodiment of prose fiction, poetry, and other kinds of literary texts, including nonfiction. Students practice adaptation and script preparation, solo/group performance, and performance critique. 
1596:Takes up the fundamental assumptions of contemporary memory studies and the centrality of rhetoric to memory. Research focus on how constructions of the past respond to the present and future. 
1597:Approaches to the analysis and assessment of rhetorical practice with a focus on how rhetoric reflects and shapes public culture. 
1598:Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. A special topics course on a selected aspect of communication studies. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1599:Course serves as a "production house" for projects that serve the UNC and broader communities. Students will serve on professionally run crews, spend two weeks determining what the projects will be, and devote the remainder of the semester making the projects. students lacking the prerequisite. 
1600:This course explores the use of rhetorical criticism as a way to understand how the visual and material are used for symbolic and political purposes. Examples ranging from news images to public art will be studied. 
1601:Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. An investigation of psychological aspects of communication, particularly the perceptual and interpretive processes underlying the sending and receiving of messages. 
1602:Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Critical examination of alternative theories of leadership and trends in the study of leadership; focuses on the communicative dimensions of leadership. 
1603:Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Course examines the speeches and other texts that announced and embodied the goals and political strategies of multiple branches of three waves of feminist activism in the United States. 
1604:Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Course examines the speeches and other texts that announced and embodied the goals and political strategies of multiple branches of three waves of feminist activism in the United States. 
1605:Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Provides a critical exploration of organizational communication theory, research, and application, examining the factors involved in the functioning and analysis of complex organizations. 
1606:Permission of instructor for students lacking the prerequisite. The study of organizational culture operates on a set of assumptions distinct from traditional management perspectives. This course explores the cultural perspective as an alternative approach to understanding organizational communication processes. 
1607:A critical examination of the theory, research, and practice of organizational ethics. 
1608:Introduces students to approaches for creating performance from screenplays and other texts for electronic media forms, focusing on scripts as literature and the tensions between live and electronically delivered performances. 
1609:The course examines the aesthetic and technical elements at work and play in cinematic storytelling. The student is required to complete three projects and will gain hands-on experience in narrative filmmaking. 
1610:Students practice the craft of screen adaptation by conceptualizing, outlining, and writing scenes based on material from another medium (both fiction and nonfiction). Work is presented, discussed, and performed in a workshop environment. 
1611:Open only to students in the writing for the screen and stage minor. Students will write and workshop a full-length feature film screenplay. Students will learn about the film and television business through a combination of research, in-class discussions, and interactive interviews with industry insiders. 
1612:Examines the social, cultural, political, legal, historical, and aesthetic implications of pornography. 
1613:Studies the development of the art of film through World War II by examining individual films and filmmakers and the emergence of national cinemas through interaction among aesthetic, social, economic, and technological factors. 
1614:Study of the development of the art of film from the end of World War II to the present day by examining individual films and filmmakers and the emergence of national cinemas through interaction among aesthetic, social, economic, and technological factors. 
1615:Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Investigates how humor, comedy, and laughter function socially and culturally through close examination of selected United States popular media texts and the primary modern theoretical writings on these issues. 
1616:Examines questions about sexuality and how it has changed over time, through various media of visual communication. 
1617:Intensive investigation of some particularly influential strains for United States independent narrative cinema, with a focus on sociocultural contexts and the fuzziness of the word "independent. of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisite. 
1618:Course gives Alfred Hitchcock's cinema careful attention while tracking longstanding debates about signification and reference from philosophy, semiotics, literary theory, narratology, and visuality into recent critical and cultural theory. of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisite. 
1619:Explores through performance contemporary poetry, fiction, nonfiction, and feminist thought by women of color in the United States. 
1620:Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Explores through performance contemporary poetry, fiction, nonfiction, and feminist thought by women of color in the United States. 
1621:This course combines readings and field work in oral history with the study of performance as a means of interpreting and conveying oral history texts. 
1622:This course combines readings and field work in oral history with the study of performance as a means of interpreting and conveying oral history texts. 
1623:The course explores advanced performance theory while focusing exclusively on contemporary poetry, prose fiction, and drama intended for young audiences. Both solo and group performances for young viewers are included. students lacking the prerequisite. 
1624:Critical examination of the operation of performance as a cultural phenomenon, with an emphasis on meaning, power, and resistance in cultural events, social practices, and media spectacles. 
1625:This course introduces students to practices in adapting and directing literary texts for live ensemble performance. Students will create original performance work, engage in collaborative critique, and discuss the development of aesthetic value. 
1626:Investigates the theoretical definitions and uses of rhetorical interpretation and action in spoken, written, visual, material practices, discourses, and events. 
1627:Analyzes argument in a variety of contexts with an emphasis on public policy and exploring tensions involved in addressing both expert and public audience in the political sphere. 
1628:Examines public discourse from the colonial period to the present. Discourses, critical perspectives, and historical periods studied will vary. 
1629:Examines American cultural myths about war generally and specifically about the causes of war, enemies, weapons, and warriors, and the way these myths constrain foreign and defense policy, military strategy, and procurement. 
1630:The power of the presidency depends in part upon the president's ability to rally public opinion, which depends upon the president's ability to use the "bully pulpit." This course examines the hurdles presidents face and the steps presidents take to shape opinion. 
1631:This course will examine how tropes of "race" are symbolically invented and experienced psychologically and emotionally. This course assesses how "race" reflects and shapes cultural politics. 
1632:This course will explore the complex ways in which Black aesthetic forms and creative expression function as public discourse. 
1633:Permission of the department. Majors only. 3.0 cumulative grade point average and 3.5 communication studies grade point average required. For the communication studies major who wishes to pursue an advanced independent research project under the supervision of a selected instructor. Intensive individual research on a problem designed by instructor and student in conference. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1634:Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Review of the basics of quantitative research (e.g., scientific method, modes of data collection, instrument development, data analysis techniques) with the goal of gaining skill in reading published articles in communication studies journals. 
1635:Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Course focuses on how communication is used to build and sustain interpersonal relationships. Forms and functions of communication are examined as a means of testing and defining relationships. 
1636:The primary focus of hate speech is on the ways that interactants manipulate hatred to accomplish a variety of social and personal goals. The pursuit of this focus will allow the student to appreciate the operation of hatred in a variety of contexts. Often taught as a service- learning course. 
1637:Introduces students to the opportunities, challenges, and rewards of participation within the nonprofit/NGO sector. The course also equips students with the skills needed to design and conduct engaged scholarship. 
1638:A workshop in the production of video and/or film nonfiction or documentary projects. The course will focus on narrative, representational, and aesthetic strategies of documentary production. 
1639:Explores interactive media through creative projects that include sound, video, and graphic elements. Technical information will serve the broader goal of understanding the aesthetics and critical issues of interactive media. 
1640:Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Studio course that explores gaming critically and aesthetically. Practice in game design and production including 3-D worlds and scripting. 
1641:Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. This course will explore various specific topics, theories, and methodologies in cultural studies. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1642:Permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisite. Students create documentaries emphasizing the filmmaker's personal perspective and experience: essay, diary, and autobiographical films, and pieces in which the filmmaker performs a role for expressive or political ends. Significant class time is devoted to work-shopping student films. 
1643:Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Historical and theoretical examination of expressions of the documentary idea in different eras and various modes including film, television, and radio. 
1644:Grade of C or better required in prerequisite. Students use Adobe After- Effects and Adobe Photoshop as their primary image software to create several original animations. Assignments are given weekly, and a substantial final project is expected. 
1645:Recommended preparation, several production courses above COMM 230. Course provides a structured environment, instructor and peer feedback, along with production and postproduction resources for completing advanced near-to-graduation media projects. Projects can be narrative, documentary, experimental, or interactive. 653, or 654. 
1646:Primary subjects will be popular culture and media technology, and guiding questions will be organized around the relationships of each to commerce and/as social change. students lacking the prerequisite. 
1647:Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. This course examines critical and theoretical issues concerning the representation and study of various modes of difference, such as sexuality, race, and gender, in specific media texts. 
1648:This course allows students to create video productions that play with forms that lie outside of mainstream media. students lacking the prerequisite. 
1649:In this course students learn a wide range of video post production techniques working mostly with the application After Effects. COMM 130; permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisite. 
1650:This course introduces students to critical television studies. The course emphasizes not television or culture as separate entities but instead "Television Culture." The focus of the class is on the interrelationship between television and contemporary culture. 
1651:Course provides a workshop setting for the process of creation, dramaturgy, development, analysis, and critique of graduates' and undergraduates' original performance work, focusing on the needs of each project in progress. 
1652:Examines race and ethnicity in specific geopolitical contexts as discursive formations, performative identities, and lived realities. Studies disciplinary/political boundaries that are produced and maintained through acts of performance. 
1653:Recommended preparation, COMM 160. Relying on critical race theories, colonial and postcolonial theories, and theories of performance, this course engages comparative discourses of Black/African diaspora citizenship through the literature, poetry, fiction, nonfiction, drama, and cultural performances of people of African descent, particularly in Africa, Europe, and the Americas. 
1654:The study of "paranoia" as a form of discourse and practice of resistance through the study of fiction, critical texts, film, and contemporary United States history. Course focuses on the creation of original, collectively- devised performance work as a means of engaging with course materials. 
1655:Course addresses the operation of corporate power and consumer practices as political and cultural performances, and performance as a means of pursuing social and economic justice. 
1656:Required preparation, one performance studies course above COMM 400. Permission of the instructor for students lacking the required preparation. Project-based class where students acquire skills and critical approaches to create collaborative, professional, multimedia works. 
1657:This course explores the intersection of ethnographic theory/practice and discourses of sustainable community change with the aim of making appropriate and effective contributions to community development. 
1658:This course explores the intersection of ethnographic theory/practice and discourses of sustainable community change with the aim of making appropriate and effective contributions to community development. 
1659:Permission of the instructor for undergraduates. Intended for students from various majors, this course provides a foundation in the history, theory, and practice of developing live, technologically-intensive, multimedia performance works. The course analyzes new media masterworks, addresses techniques of interdisciplinary collaboration, and offers workshops in specific software/technology applications. 
1660:Overview of poststructuralist, or "contemporary" film theory. Traces its development, its techniques, fierce critiques lobbed at it since the early 1980s, and its points of continuing importance. of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisite. 
1661:Theories of moving images and imaging technologies--from the primitive to the not-yet-existing--that focus on their multifaceted relations with various registers of time, memory, flux, and futurity. of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisite. 
1662:History and theory of international avant-garde and experimentalist movements in film, video, intermedia, multimedia, and digital formats. Content and focus may vary from semester to semester. of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisite. 
1663:Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. A special topics course on a selected aspect of communication studies. May be repeated. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1664:Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. A special topics course on a selected aspect of communication studies. May be repeated. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1665:Permission of the instructor. Required of all senior honors candidates in cultural studies. First semester of senior honors thesis. 
1666:Permission of the instructor. Required of all senior honors candidates in cultural studies. Second semester of senior honors thesis. 
1667:Permission of the department. Majors only. Cumulative grade point average must meet University standard. Individual projects designed by students and supervised by a faculty member. 
1668:Permission of the department. Majors only. Cumulative grade point average must meet University standard. Individual projects designed by students and supervised by a faculty member. 
1669:Recommended preparation, COMM 562 or 841. A bridge course designed to offer graduate students and advanced undergraduates a practicum in fieldwork methods and performance ethnography. 
1670:The goal of this first-year seminar is to understand the use of computing technology in our daily activities. In this course, we will study various examples of how computing solves problems in different aspects in our daily life. 
1671:The goal of this first-year seminar is to understand the use of computing technology in our daily activities. In this course, we will study various examples of how computing solves problems in different aspects in our daily life. 
1672:This seminar explores the process of design and the nature of computers by designing, building, and programming LEGO robots. Competitions to evaluate various robots are generally held at the middle and at the end of the semester. Previous programming experience is not required. 
1673:This seminar explores the process of design and the nature of computers by designing, building, and programming LEGO robots. Competitions to evaluate various robots are generally held at the middle and at the end of the semester. Previous programming experience is not required. 
1674:Explore the art of origami, the science of protein, and the mathematics of robotics through lectures, discussions, and projects involving artistic folding, mathematical puzzles, scientific exploration, and research. 
1675:Service-learning course exploring issues around computers and people with disabilities. Students work with users and experts to develop ideas and content for new technologies. No previous computer experience required. 
1676:Service-learning course exploring issues around computers and people with disabilities. Students work with users and experts to develop ideas and content for new technologies. No previous computer experience required. 
1677:This seminar will study the concepts associated with video gaming by having small teams design a game, build a prototype, and put together a business proposal for the game. 
1678:This seminar will study the concepts associated with video gaming by having small teams design a game, build a prototype, and put together a business proposal for the game. 
1679:Special topics course. Content will vary each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1680:Special topics course. Content will vary each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1681:The nature of computers, their capabilities, and limitations. How computers work, popular applications, problem-solving skills, algorithms and programming. Lectures and laboratory assignments. 
1682:An introduction to programming. Fundamental programming skills, typically using Java or JavaScript. Problem analysis and algorithm design. Students may not receive credit for both COMP 110 and COMP 116. 
1683:An introduction to programming. Fundamental programming skills, typically using Java or JavaScript. Problem analysis and algorithm design. Students may not receive credit for both COMP 110 and COMP 116. 
1684:An introduction to programming for computationally oriented scientists. Fundamental programming skills, typically using MATLAB or Python. Problem analysis and algorithm design with examples drawn from simple numerical and discrete problems. Students can receive credit for only one of COMP 110 and 116. 
1685:We will investigate ways computer technology can be used to mitigate the effects of disabilities and the sometimes surprising response of those we intended to help. 
1686:We will investigate ways computer technology can be used to mitigate the effects of disabilities and the sometimes surprising response of those we intended to help. 
1687:Concepts of computer game development and their application beyond entertainment to fields such as education, health, and business. Course includes team development of a game. Excludes COMP majors. 
1688:Concepts of computer game development and their application beyond entertainment to fields such as education, health, and business. Course includes team development of a game. Excludes COMP majors. 
1689:Permission of the instructor. Special topics in computing targeted primarily for students with no computer science background. This course has variable content and may be taken multiple times for credit. As the content will vary with each offering, there are no set Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
1690:Structured practice to develop and refine programming skills in preparation for the ACM programming competition. 
1691:Introduces discrete structures (sets, tuples, relations, functions, graphs, trees) and the formal mathematics (logic, proof, induction) used to establish their properties and those of algorithms that work with them. Develops problem-solving skills through puzzles and applications central to computer science. 
1692:Non-technical topics in computer science for computer science majors. May not be used to satisfy any degree requirements for a computer science major. This course has variable content and may be taken multiple times for credit. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
1693:Permission of the director of undergraduate studies. Computer science majors only. A signed learning contract is required before a student may register. Work experience in non-elementary computer science. Pass/Fail only. May be repeated for up to six credits. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1694:An introduction to digital technology and computer science issues in society. Topics may include Internet history, privacy, security, usability, graphics, games, computers in the media, development, economics, social media, AI, IP, computer and Internet ethics, global ethics, current legal issues, etc. 
1695:An introduction to digital technology and computer science issues in society. Topics may include Internet history, privacy, security, usability, graphics, games, computers in the media, development, economics, social media, AI, IP, computer and Internet ethics, global ethics, current legal issues, etc. 
1696:Explores Internet history and cyberphilosophy; online identify construction, community, communication, creativity; bodies/cyborgs; intelligence and AI. Students perform independent research into and analyze virtual worlds, social media, anonymous bulletin boards, mobile media, and more, and create digital art and literature. Seminar-style; students collaborate on designing and leading class. students lacking the prerequisite. 
1697:Elective topics in computer science for computer science majors. May not be used to satisfy any degree requirements for a computer science major. This course has variable content and may be taken multiple times for credit. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1698:Students develop a software program for a real client under the supervision of a faculty member. Projects may be proposed by the student but must have real users. Course is intended for students desiring practical experiences in software engineering but lacking the experience required for external opportunities. Majors only. Pass/Fail. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1699:Required preparation, a first formal course in computer programming (e.g., COMP 110, COMP 116). Advanced programming: object-oriented design, classes, interfaces, packages, inheritance, delegation, observers, MVC (model view controller), exceptions, assertions. 
1700:Required preparation, a first formal course in computer programming (e.g., COMP 110, COMP 116). Advanced programming: object-oriented design, classes, interfaces, packages, inheritance, delegation, observers, MVC (model view controller), exceptions, assertions. 
1701:The analysis of data structures and their associated algorithms. Abstract data types, lists,stacks, queues, trees, and graphs. Sorting, searching, hashing.
1702:Digital logic, circuit components. Data representation, computer architecture and implementation, assembly language programming. 
1703:Developing applications for the World Wide Web including both client- side and server-side programming. Emphasis on Model-View-Controller architecture, AJAX, RESTful Web services, and database interaction. 
1704:Application-level protocols HTTP, SMTP, FTP, transport protocols TCP and UDP, and the network-level protocol IP. Internet architecture, naming, addressing, routing, and DNS. Sockets programming. Physical-layer technologies. Ethernet, ATM, and wireless. 
1705:ntroduction to topics in computer security including confidentiality, integrity, availability, authentication policies, basic cryptography and cryptographic protocols, ethics, and privacy. A student may not receive credit for this course after receiving credit for COMP 535.
1706:Introduction to the theory of computation. Finite automata, regular languages, pushdown automata, context-free languages, and Turing machines. Undecidable problems. MATH 381. 
1707:Study of applications of natural language processing techniques and the representations and processes needed to support them. Topics include interfaces, text retrieval, machine translation, speech processing, and text generation. 
1708:Study of information retrieval and question answering techniques, including document classification, retrieval and evaluation techniques, handling of large data collections, and the use of feedback. 
1709:Independent research conducted under the direct mentorship of a computer science faculty member. This course cannot be counted toward the completion of the major or minor. For computer science majors only. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1710:Permission of the director of undergraduate studies. Computer science majors only. For advanced majors in computer science who wish to conduct an independent study or research project with a faculty supervisor. May be taken repeatedly for up to a total of six credit hours. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1711:Design and construction of compilers. Theory and pragmatics of lexical, syntactic, and semantic analysis. Interpretation. Code generation for a modern architecture. Run-time environments. Includes a large compiler implementation project. 
1712:Placement of data on secondary storage. File organization. Database history, practice, major models, system structure and design. MATH 381. 
1713:Organization and scheduling of software engineering projects, structured programming, and design. Each team designs, codes, and debugs program components and synthesizes them into a tested, documented program product. from COMP 426, 431, 520, 521, 530, 535, 560, 562, 575, 580, 585. 
1714:Concepts of high-level programming and their realization in specific languages. Data types, scope, control structures, procedural abstraction, classes, concurrency. Run-time implementation. 
1715:Types of operating systems. Concurrent programming. Management of storage, processes, devices. Scheduling, protection. Case study. Course includes a programming laboratory. 
1716:Types of operating systems. Concurrent programming. Management of storage, processes, devices. Scheduling, protection. Case study. Course includes a programming laboratory. 
1717:Distributed systems and their goals; resource naming, synchronization of distributed processes; consistency and replication; fault tolerance; security and trust; distributed object-based systems; distributed file systems; distributed Web-based systems; and peer-to-peer systems. for students lacking the prerequisite. 
1718:Principles of securing the creation, storage, and transmission of data and ensuring its integrity, confidentiality and availability. Topics include access control, cryptography and cryptographic protocols, network security, and online privacy. 
1719:This course is an introduction to digital logic as well as the structure and electronic design of modern processors. Students will implement a working computer during the laboratory sessions. 
1720:Formal specification and verification of programs. Techniques of algorithm analysis. Problem-solving paradigms. Survey of selected algorithms. 
1721:Bioinformatics algorithms. Topics include DNA restriction mapping, finding regulatory motifs, genome rearrangements, sequence alignments, gene prediction, graph algorithms, DNA sequencing, protein sequencing, combinatorial pattern matching, approximate pattern matching, clustering and evolution, tree construction, Hidden Markov Models, randomized algorithms. 
1722:Introduction to techniques and applications of modern artificial intelligence. Combinatorial search, probabilistic models and reasoning, and applications to natural language understanding, robotics, and computer vision. 
1723:Machine learning as applied to speech recognition, tracking, collaborative filtering and recommendation systems. Classification, regression, support vector machines, hidden Markov models, principal component analysis, and deep learning. permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
1724:The course provides a hands on introduction to techniques in computational photography--the process of digitally recording light and then performing computational manipulations on those measurements to produce an image or other representation. The course includes an introduction to relevant concepts in computer vision and computer graphics. 
1725:Hardware, software, and algorithms for computer graphics. Scan conversion, 2-D and 3-D transformations, object hierarchies. Hidden surface removal, clipping, shading, and antialiasing. Not for graduate computer science credit. 
1726:Mathematics relevant to image processing and analysis using real image computing objectives and provided by computer implementations. 
1727:We will investigate ways computer technology can be used to mitigate the effects of disabilities and the sometimes surprising response of those we intended to help. 
1728:Instructor permission for students lacking the prerequisites. Hands- on introduction to robotics with a focus on the computational aspects. Students will build and program mobile robots. Topics include kinematics, actuation, sensing, configuration spaces, control, and motion planning. Applications include industrial, mobile, personal, and medical robots. 
1729:Instructor permission for students lacking the prerequisites. Hands- on introduction to robotics with a focus on the computational aspects. Students will build and program mobile robots. Topics include kinematics, actuation, sensing, configuration spaces, control, and motion planning. Applications include industrial, mobile, personal, and medical robots. 
1730:Concepts of computer game development and their application beyond entertainment to fields such as education, health, and business. Course includes team development of a game. 
1731:Concepts of computer game development and their application beyond entertainment to fields such as education, health, and business. Course includes team development of a game. 
1732:Permission of the instructor. This course has variable content and may be taken multiple times for credit. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
1733:Permission of the instructor. This course has variable content and may be taken multiple times for credit. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
1734:Required preparation, a first course in operating systems and a first course in algorithms (e.g., COMP 530 and 550). Principles and practices of parallel and distributed computing. Models of computation. Concurrent programming languages and systems. Architectures. Algorithms and applications. Practicum. 
1735:This course builds an understanding of the core issues encountered in the design of wireless (vs. wired) networks. It also exposes students to fairly recent paradigms in wireless communication. 
1736:Required preparation, a first course in algorithms (e.g., COMP 550). Design and analysis of algorithms and data structures for geometric problems. Applications in graphics, CAD/CAM, robotics, GIS, and molecular biology. 
1737:Instructor permission for students lacking prerequisites. Introduction to design and analysis of cryptographic algorithms. Topics include basis of abstract algebra and number theory, symmetric and asymmetric encryption algorithms, cryptographic hash functions, message authentication codes, digital signature schemes, elliptic curve algorithms, side-channel attacks, selected advanced topics 
1738:Theory and practical issues arising in linear algebra problems derived from physical applications, e.g., discretization of ODEs and PDEs. Linear systems, linear least squares, eigenvalue problems, singular value decomposition. 
1739:Required preparation, a first course in data structures and a first course in discrete mathematics (e.g., COMP 410 and MATH 383). Display devices and procedures. Scan conversion. Matrix algebra supporting viewing transformations in computer graphics. Basic differential geometry. Coordinate systems, Fourier analysis, FDFT algorithm. Human visual system, psychophysics, scale in vision. 
1740:This course has variable content and may be taken multiple times for credit. COMP 690 courses do not count toward the major or minor. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 8 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1741:For computer science majors only and by permission of the department. Individual student research for students pursuing an honors thesis in computer science under the supervision of a departmental faculty adviser. 
1742:Permission of the department. Required of all students in the honors program in computer science. The construction of a written honors thesis and an oral public presentation of the thesis are required. 
1743:This seminar is designed to get the student doing theatre, sparking creativity, and making connections with the deeper lessons of this dynamic art form. Students will write, stage, and perform their own 10- minute plays. 
1744:The course seeks to help students find ways to articulate their own motivations for dress and then apply the ideas they have discovered to the ways in which individuality as well as group attitudes are expressed through clothing. 
1745:The course seeks to help students find ways to articulate their own motivations for dress and then apply the ideas they have discovered to the ways in which individuality as well as group attitudes are expressed through clothing. 
1746:This seminar examines American drama from its colonial origins to the present as both a literary and commercial art form. The focus throughout will be on the forces that shaped American drama as well as drama's ability to shed light on the national experience. 
1747:This seminar examines American drama from its colonial origins to the present as both a literary and commercial art form. The focus throughout will be on the forces that shaped American drama as well as drama's ability to shed light on the national experience. 
1748:This seminar examines how theatre evolves from and reflects the society that generates it, and how understanding that society can enrich our responses to plays. 
1749:This course examines how the theatrical designer uses scenery, costumes, and lighting to help create a production. Students will apply these techniques in creating their own design projects. 
1750:This course examines what elements contribute to the theatricality of space. Through research and creative projects, students will gauge how a space informs what goes on inside it. 
1751:This course explores the political and social ramifications of documentary theatre in the United States. Students will investigate a local community of their choosing and create an interview-based performance. 
1752:This course explores the political and social ramifications of documentary theatre in the United States. Students will investigate a local community of their choosing and create an interview-based performance. 
1753:This seminar will focus on developing our unique mind-body connection. By encouraging small and large changes in behavior students will learn how their body is used to create their world. 
1754:This seminar studies the elements of design in their pure form, surveys a history of period styles and theatre, and identifies their causes. 
1755:This seminar studies the elements of design in their pure form, surveys a history of period styles and theatre, and identifies their causes. 
1756:This seminar will guide students through researching, developing, and producing new performance works inspired by socio-ecological issues. This task involves student-directed research and experiential learning. Students will integrate an understanding of performance techniques, "green theatre," and notions of sustainability into an ecologically-driven work for performance. 
1757:This is a special topics course. Content will vary. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1758:A survey of plays from the Greeks to the present, analyzed through such elements of the dramatic text as action, character, structure, and language. 
1759:A survey of plays from the Greeks to the present, analyzed through such elements of the dramatic text as action, character, structure, and language. 
1760:A survey of the interrelationships of acting, directing, designing, and playwriting through the study of major periods of theatrical expression and representative plays. 
1761:A survey of the interrelationships of acting, directing, designing, and playwriting through the study of major periods of theatrical expression and representative plays. 
1762:A survey of non-Western drama and theatre with emphasis on the historical and aesthetic development of those regions. 
1763:A survey of non-Western drama and theatre with emphasis on the historical and aesthetic development of those regions 
1764:Development of the skill to analyze plays for academic and production purposes through the intensive study of representative plays. DRAM 120 is the first course in the major and the minor in dramatic art. 
1765:Development of the skill to analyze plays for academic and production purposes through the intensive study of representative plays. DRAM 120 is the first course in the major and the minor in dramatic art. 
1766:Restricted course. Dramatic writing workshop open only to students in the writing for the screen and stage minor. 
1767:Permission of the instructor. Practice in the techniques necessary for successful auditions for the theatre. 
1768:Introduction to basic processes and techniques of acting for the stage. 
1769:Fundamental principles underlying the effective use of voice and speech in performance. 
1770:The course focuses on developing acting techniques for use in front of the camera and the way they are differentiated from those used on stage. 
1771:Introduction to acting tools, emphasizing playing actions and pursuing an objective by personalized given circumstances. Performance work drawn from short scripted, improvised, and contemporary scenes. 
1772:Introduction to physical training. Individual/group exercises explore relaxation, breath, concentration, flexibility, and imaginative response that become physical tools for acting. May include stage combat, juggling, mime, improvisation, games, and yoga. 
1773:General survey of materials, equipment, and processes used in technical theatre. 
1774:This course seeks to strengthen the powers of imagination, courage, spontaneity, and presence of the actor through theatre games and improvisation. 
1775:DRAM 191 or 192 required for dramatic art majors. Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Introduction to equipment, procedures, and personnel in the design and execution of plans for scenery, lighting, properties, and sound for theatrical productions. 
1776:DRAM 191 or 192 required for dramatic art majors. Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Introduction to equipment, procedures, and personnel in the design and execution of costumes for theatrical productions. 
1777:Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Required for the dramatic art major. Practicum in production with PlayMakers Repertory Company in costuming, scenery, lighting, sound, or theatre management. 
1778:Permission of the department. May be repeated for credit. Restricted to juniors and seniors majoring in dramatic art. Intensive individual work in major areas of theatrical production: design, technical, directing, acting, playwriting, management. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1779:A study of the thematic and formal developments of Western drama, tracing legacies from classical Greece to the contemporary stage. 
1780:Permission of the department. A practical course in writing for the stage with studio productions of selected works. 
1781:A further exploration of basic processes and techniques of acting for the stage. 
1782:A continuation of DRAM 140. 
1783:The process of acting and its relationship to the technical and artistic demands of television/film production. Problems of continuity and out-of- sequence filming. Concentration and thinking on camera. for students lacking the prerequisite. 
1784:A deeper exploration of fulfilled actions prompted by an objective, with emphasis on developing techniques required by more formally structured texts such as Sophocles, Molière, Ibsen, Shaw, and Chekhov. . 
1785:Development of balance, flexibility, strength, focus, grace, and precision through martial art of T'ai Chi Ch'uan. Emphasis on applying T'ai Chi principles to acting. Chinese philosophical bases for T'ai Chi explored. students lacking the prerequisite. 
1786:The course provides practical applications of principles and techniques used in technical theatre. Lectures are supported by individually scheduled workshop sessions where techniques are applied to a theatrical production. students lacking the prerequisite. 
1787:A study of principles and techniques for stage, film, and television makeup, including corrective makeup, old age, 3-D, casting for prosthetic pieces, and methods for creating fantasy forms. Also applicable to film and television. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1788:General principles of scenic, costume, and lighting design for the theatre. 
1789:An overview of the major functions of management in the American nonprofit theatre including marketing, fundraising, finances, strategy and operations. Presentation skills will be practiced. 
1790:A study of visual, cultural, and social styles through history as the forms developed, and as they relate to stylistic production for the theatre. Students may not receive credit for both DRAM 280 and DRAM 480. 
1791:Survey of theatre practice and writing from the Greeks to 1700. 
1792:Survey of theatre practice and writing from 1700 to 1920. 
1793:Survey of theatre practice and writing from 1930 to the present. 
1794:May be repeated for credit. Seminar in dramatic theory and criticism with emphasis on the modern period. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1795:May be repeated for credit. Seminar in dramatic theory and criticism with emphasis on the modern period. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1796:Evolution of modern British drama from 1956 through the present. 
1797:Evolution of modern British drama from 1956 through the present. 
1798:This course surveys Irish drama from the 1890s to the 1980s, investigating a broad range of plays in relationship to the sociopolitical and theatrical conditions of their emergence and reception. 
1799:This course investigates the history and legacy of African American drama through the study of its literary texts, performance styles, and cultural history. 
1800:This course assesses different models of theatre for social change through change theory, playwriting, and collaboration. Students will be guided through the process of creating new works. 
1801:This course investigates Irish drama from the 1990s to the present, exploring how issues and themes of globalization, gender, race, nation, and identity, among others, translate from text to performance. 
1802:This course investigates Irish drama from the 1990s to the present, exploring how issues and themes of globalization, gender, race, nation, and identity, among others, translate from text to performance. 
1803:-3 Credits. The study of a topic in dramaturgy, theatrical design, or theatrical production. Content and instructor will vary. May be repeated for credit. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1804:This course investigates how Shakespeare is retold and relived in the Asian theatre vocabulary through examining aesthetic value, cultural and political identify, postcolonial modernity, and spectatorship in theatrical and cinematic interpretations of Shakespeare. 
1805:This course considers the anatomy and diversity of the American musical, exploring its history and aesthetics and employing an interdisciplinary approach to examining and celebrating its shows, sounds, stars, structures, styles, and sensibilities, within the genre's dominant contexts of Broadway, Hollywood, and Utopia. 
1806:An introduction to the principles of arts criticism through study of the work of a variety of critics, by distinguishing between the nature of criticism and reviewing the arts (both performing and plastic), and through the students' own practice of critical writing by means of a series of short essays. 
1807:This course examines the lives of African American women through theatre, heightening awareness, understanding, and appreciation of theatre as a tool for social change and eradicating stereotypes. Themes and production aesthetics will be explored in their social and historical contexts. 
1808:This course will examine the lives and the theatrical contributions of African women through published and unpublished materials, production recordings, and interviews. Through understanding the diverse cultures of the continent, theatre is seen as entertainment and as a tool for effecting social change and healing. 
1809:Generally limited to majors. An introductory course in the principles of stage directing; analysis for concept, organization of production, and methodology of staging. students lacking the prerequisite. 
1810:A practical course in writing for the theatre, taught at an advanced level. students lacking the prerequisite. 
1811:Development of the actor's technique in verse drama with emphasis on scansion and textual analysis as guidelines for actions, characterization, and given circumstances. Scene and monologue work drawn from the works of Shakespeare. students lacking the prerequisite. 
1812:Permission of the department. Individual programs or internship in acting, directing, design, management, and playwriting under the guidance of professional practitioners in conjunction with PlayMakers Repertory Company or other professional theatre organizations. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
1813:Permission of the department. A study of the basic principles and practices of modern stage management. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1814:Permission of the instructor. General principles of visual design as applied to scenery for the theatre. Instruction in standard techniques of planning and rendering scene design. 
1815:Permission of the instructor. Studies and practicum in play analysis and costume design for the theatre. Instruction in techniques of planning and rendering costume design. 
1816:Permission of the instructor. General principles of lighting design as applied to the performing arts. Theory and instruction in standard techniques of lighting for the stage. 
1817:A survey of historic costume forms from ancient Egypt to the present time. 
1818:A survey of historic costume forms from ancient Egypt to the present time. 
1819:Permission of the instructor. Beginning instruction in pattern making through flat pattern for theatrical costume. 
1820:Beginning instruction in pattern making through draping on a dress form for theatrical costume. students lacking the prerequisite. 
1821:A survey of the traditional costume forms on the African Continent, in Asia (China, Japan, India), and on the Arabian Peninsula. 
1822:A survey of the traditional costume forms on the African Continent, in Asia (China, Japan, India), and on the Arabian Peninsula 
1823:A study of the historical development of Western minor arts and the ramifications of reproducing them for the theatre. Students may not receive credit for both DRAM 280 and DRAM 480. 
1824:This seminar seeks to introduce students to the principles of arts criticism through study of the work of a variety of different critics, by distinguishing between the nature of criticism and reviewing the arts, and through the students' own practice of critical writing. 
1825:This course explores the historical and aesthetic development of Latin American theatre, focusing on particular factors that distinguish this theatre from the Western European tradition. 
1826:Investigation of United States Latino/a theatre texts and performance practices as a discreet genre. United States Latino/a theatre will be distinguished from the dominant culture, and the diversity of forms and styles will be discussed. 
1827:This course will examine the role of Carnival in the African Diaspora, exploring its history, its many theatrical forms, and its fusion with European and indigenous American cultures. Through examining published and unpublished texts the development of the Carnival will be understood as an expression of freedom and cultural survival. 
1828:Arts management issues taught through analysis of case studies. Course includes management theories, organizational structures, and current issues. 
1829:Practicum in theatre management procedures and business of the theatre involving box office, audience development, research, publicity, operational, and contract procedures in regard to artists, technicians, managers, and producers. Students actively engage in management areas of the PlayMakers Repertory Company and productions of the Department of Dramatic Art. 
1830:Advanced study of the principles and practice of designing scenery for the theatre. students lacking the prerequisite. 
1831:Permission of the instructor. Practicum in costume design for the theatre, focusing on the requirements of professional theatre production and alternative costume design solutions. 
1832:Permission of the instructor. Taught in a four-semester rotation. May be repeated for credit for a total of six hours for undergraduates and 12 hours for graduate students. Series of topics in costume for use in design and production for the stage. 
1833:Permission of the instructor. Advanced costume production techniques with an emphasis on millinery and hair design. 
1834:Permission of the instructor. Advanced costume production techniques with an emphasis on creating masks and armor. 
1835:Permission of the instructor. Advanced costume production techniques with an emphasis on decorative arts. 
1836:-3 Credits. The study of a topic in dramaturgy, theatrical design, or theatrical production for advanced undergraduates and graduate students. Content and instructor will vary. May be repeated for credit. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1837:-3 Credits. Advanced construction techniques in theatrical costuming with an emphasis on couture methods. 
1838:Required preparation, one performance studies course above COMM 400. Permission of the instructor for students lacking the required preparation. Project-based class where students acquire skills and critical approaches to create collaborative, professional, multimedia works. 
1839:Permission of the instructor. Study of costume design for students concentrating in costume production. 
1840:Required preparation, 3.3 cumulative grade point average and permission of the department. The commencement of a special project (essay or creative endeavor), approved by the department, by a student who has been designated a candidate for undergraduate honors. 
1841:Permission of the department. The completion of a special project by a student who has been designated a candidate for undergraduate honors. 
1842:Close study of the interrelationships between theory and practice in contemporary world theatre, placing developments in their cultural contexts, and exploring current theatrical trends in an international framework. 
1843:Are we heading for global depression and an intensification of international conflict as in the 1930s? Or are we on the threshold of a golden age of peace and prosperity? This course will use the tools of economics and international security analysis to examine the probable directions of that change. 
1844:Basic concepts of economics through the study of basic economic issues facing the residents of North Carolina. Topics will include hog farming, the Carolina Panthers, the outsourcing of manufacturing jobs, the proliferation of Wal-Marts, and more. 
1845:It is amazing that over time people have developed the willingness to exchange valuable goods for useless pieces of paper called money. In this course, students study money as a social, economic, historical, and cultural institution. 
1846:The basic question examined in this course will be the costs and benefits of the United States policy of drug prohibition. As a seminar the class will consist of discussions and debates. 
1847:What are the skills and competencies that great entrepreneurs have in common and how might first-year students begin to acquire such skills? This course will answer the question by combining a study of the writings of leading scholars on innovation and entrepreneurship with analytical case studies on successful entrepreneurs. 
1848:This course uses a varity of economic tools to analyze selected topics and issues related to professional, collegiate, and recreational athletics. 
1849:This course fits the Carolina Entrepreneurial Initiative (CEI), with a communication intensive, global issues framework. 
1850:Exploring research universities' impact on solving the world's biggest problems. Based on a book coauthored by Buck Goldstein and Chancellor Holden Thorp. Students will work on an entrepreneurial project. 
1851:This first-year seminar course covers the 376-year history of financial crises ending with the great meltdown of 2008. We will study recurring historical patterns of financial bubbles and examine critical differences among them. 
1852:This is a special topics course. Content will vary each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1853:This is a special topics course. Content will vary each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1854:Discussion of economic topics of current interest for students with little or no background in economics. 
1855:Introduction to fundamental issues in economics including competition, scarcity, opportunity cost, resource allocation, unemployment, inflation, and the determination of prices. 
1856:Introduction to fundamental issues in economics including competition, scarcity, opportunity cost, resource allocation, unemployment, inflation, and the determination of prices. 
1857:A survey course providing both a theoretical framework and practical examples of what it means to think like an entrepreneur and how such thinking can impact a range of important societal challenges. 
1858:Examines students' knowledge and understanding of social entrepreneurship as an innovative approach to addressing complex social needs. Affords students the opportunity to engage in a business planning exercise designed to assist them in establishing and launching a social purpose entrepreneurial venture. 
1859:A comprehensive survey of commercial venturing throughout the lifecycle of a venture from initial conception to execution and exit. Outlines strategies of entrepreneurs to develop ventures in different commercial markets. instructor for students lacking the prerequisite. 
1860:Main features of the American economy: colonial times to the present. Students may not receive credit for both ECON 330 and ECON 430. 
1861:Principles and practices of the budgetary activities of American governments, federal, state, and local. Students may not receive credit for both ECON 340 and ECON 440. 
1862:Industry structure and its relation to performance; market imperfections; description and analysis of antitrust and regulation. Students may not receive credit for both ECON 345 and ECON 445. 
1863:An introduction to basic economic concepts critical to understanding issues of economic development and international economics, particularly as they relate to contemporary policy issues facing both developing and industrialized countries. 
1864:An introduction to basic economic concepts critical to understanding issues of economic development and international economics, particularly as they relate to contemporary policy issues facing both developing and industrialized countries. 
1865:Main features of the emergence and expansion of capitalism since 1500. 
1866:Introduction to the development of economic thought from the mercantilists, through Smith and the classicists, Marx, the neoclassicists to Keynes. 
1867:A survey of the principles and performance of capitalist, communist, socialist, corporatist, and transitional systems. 
1868:Focus on systemic and individual factors affecting access to work including gender, race, age, disability, transportation, international competition, technological progress, change in labor markets, educational institutions, and public policy. 
1869:Permission of the instructor. Studies have shown that courses utilizing undergraduate learning assistants have improved quality of instruction, sensitivity to student concerns, and overall student contact. Undergraduate learning assistants also gain an improved knowledge of the subject matter, heightened communication skills, and a sense of membership in the academic community. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 12 total credits. 10 total completions. 
1870:Permission of the director of undergraduate studies. Majors only. A supervised internship appropriate for experiential education in economics. Cannot count toward the economics major. Pass/Fail only. 
1871:Analysis of the ways in which consumers and business firms interact in a market economy. Students may not receive credit for both ECON 310 and 410. 
1872:Analysis of economic theory and government policy as they relate to such national economic variables as output, income, employment, inflation, investment, and budget and trade deficits. Students may not receive credit for both ECON 320 and 420 or both ECON 320 and 423. 
1873:A historical overview of the role and importance of entrepreneurship in the economy and society, and a survey of the critical competencies all entrepreneurs (commercial, social, or artistic) must possess. instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
1874:This course examines the fundamental principles of international economics from the perspective of the private business firm. Rather than begin with abstract theory, the course will work with case studies of individual firms as they choose to (or are forced to) compete in an international marketplace. students lacking the prerequisite. 
1875:An economic analysis of workplace issues, including worker quits, layoffs and unemployment, discrimination and affirmative action, and the setting of pay, fringe benefits, and working conditions. Students may not receive credit for both ECON 380 and ECON 480. 
1876:One course in economics strongly recommended. This interdisciplinary gateway course provides an introduction to subjects and quantitative techniques used to analyze problems in philosophy, political science, and economics. 
1877:Survey of women's time allocation patterns, labor force participation trends, earnings, occupational selection, and economic history. 
1878:Topic varies from semester to semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
1879:Students spend a minimum of eight weeks in an entrepreneurial environment taking on significant responsibilities and working on a specific project that results in a rigorous agreed-upon deliverable. 
1880:Topic varies from semester to semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1881:Permission of the director of undergraduate studies. Readings and research under the supervision of a member of the department. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
1882:Comprehensive introduction to statistics, including descriptive statistics and statistical graphics, probability theory, distributions, parameter estimation, hypothesis testing, simple and multiple regression, and use of powerful statistical estimation software. This course includes a substantial introduction to basic econometrics. 231, STOR 112, or 113. 
1883:Comprehensive introduction to statistics, including descriptive statistics and statistical graphics, probability theory, distributions, parameter estimation, hypothesis testing, simple and multiple regression, and use of powerful statistical estimation software. This course includes a substantial introduction to basic econometrics. 231, STOR 112, or 113. 
1884:The determination of prices and the distribution of income in a market system. Students may not receive credit for both ECON 310 and 410. STOR 112, or 113. 
1885:The determination of prices and the distribution of income in a market system. Students may not receive credit for both ECON 310 and 410. 
1886:An introduction to contemporary macroeconomic concepts and analysis. Topics include the level, fluctuations, and growth of national income, and monetary and fiscal policies designed to achieve economic goals. Students may not receive credit for both ECON 320 and ECON 420. 
1887:An introduction to contemporary macroeconomic concepts and analysis. Topics include the level, fluctuations, and growth of national income, and monetary and fiscal policies designed to achieve economic goals. Students may not receive credit for both ECON 320 and 420. 
1888:An examination of financial institutions and markets, their role in economic conditions, and the use of macroeconomic policies in affecting those conditions. Students may not receive credit for both ECON 320 and ECON 423. 
1889:This course parallels ECON 330 but is designed for students with a higher level of theoretical preparation. Students may not receive credit for both ECON 330 and ECON 430. 
1890:A survey of the fundamental forms of economic thought from the scholastics through Keynes. 
1891:Application of economic analysis to the taxing and spending functions of government. Students may not receive credit for both ECON 340 and ECON 440. 
1892:Theoretical and empirical development of structure-conduct-performance relationships in the industrial sector; description and analysis of Unites States industry. Students may not receive credit for both ECON 345 and 445. 
1893:Economic analysis applied to problems and public policy in health care. for students lacking the prerequisites. 
1894:Analysis of economic-demographic interrelations including demographic analysis, population and economic growth and development, economic models of fertility and migration, and population policy. instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
1895:A rigorous economic analysis of environmental issues, with particular emphasis on the problem of designing appropriate institutions and regulations under private information and the interaction between economic and ecological systems. Topics include emission fees and marketable permits, pollution models, carbon regulation, and ecosystem service markets. 
1896:An introduction to international trade, the balance of payments, and related issues of foreign economic policy. 
1897:Economic and political aspects of European economic integration, the EC customs union, barriers to integration, convergence vs. divergence of inflation rates and income levels, enlargement of the EC. for students lacking the prerequisites. 
1898:An introduction to the economic characteristics and problems of the less developed countries and to the theories and policies applicable to the developing economy. instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
1899:Study of the principles, design, organization, and performance of state- controlled economies relying on planning or regulated markets, with an emphasis on continuity and post-communist transition. 
1900:This course provides an in-depth examination of the behavioral principles and performances of five core Asian economic systems: Japan, China, Taiwan/South Korea, North Korea and Thailand. 
1901:An introduction to the field of labor economics with emphasis on how the interactions between firms and workers influence wages, employment, unemployment, and inflation. Students may not receive credit for both ECON 380 and ECON 480. 
1902:Applies microeconomic techniques to professional and amateur sports through the examination of real-world issues and problems. Employs statistical analysis to test some of the theoretical predictions of the models in the sports literature. 
1903:This course uses basic microeconomic theory and recent empirical studies to examine the causes and consequences of gender differences in economic outcomes. Topics covered may include family formation and dissolution, fertility decisions, human capital investment, labor force participation, the gender earnings gap, and occupational choice. 
1904:Topic varies from semester to semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
1905:Topic varies from semester to semester. Permission of the instructor. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1906:Permission of the director of undergraduate studies. Readings and research under the supervision of a member of the department. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
1907:A treatment of topics in microeconomic theory not normally covered in ECON 410. 
1908:A treatment of topics in microeconomic theory not normally covered in ECON 410. 
1909:Topics in noncooperative and cooperative game theory are covered, along with a selection of applications to economics in areas such as industrial organization, international trade, public finance, and general equilibrium. the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
1910:Topics in noncooperative and cooperative game theory are covered, along with a selection of applications to economics in areas such as industrial organization, international trade, public finance, and general equilibrium. the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
1911:This course will emphasize theoretical and empirical topics such as growth, labor search, Phillips curves, stagflation, and optimal government policy. 
1912:This course will emphasize theoretical and empirical topics such as growth, labor search, Phillips curves, stagflation, and optimal government policy. 
1913:Selected topics in taxation, public expenditures, and governmental transfer programs. 
1914:Theory of market failure and its relationship to antitrust and regulatory policy; exploration of empirical literature of industrial organization; current issues in social control. 
1915:Analysis and interpretation of selected problems and policy issues. Content varies, but attention is given to such topics as trade barriers, trade patterns, floating exchange rates, and international monetary policy. 
1916:Statistical methods in the construction, estimation, testing, and application of linear economic models; computer programs and interpretation of their output in empirical analysis of common economic theories. 
1917:Statistical methods in the construction, estimation, testing, and application of linear economic models; computer programs and interpretation of their output in empirical analysis of common economic theories. 
1918:Econometric techniques for time series data. Topics include ARMA models, forecasting, nonstationarity, conditional heteroskedasticity, and multiple equation models. instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
1919:Analyzes the family with respect to the marriage market; divorce; reproductive behavior; the baby black market; intra-family allocation of goods, time, and power; labor supply; migration; and family policy. for students lacking the prerequisites. 
1920:Topic varies from semester to semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
1921:Topic varies from semester to semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1922:Permission of the director of undergraduate studies. Readings and research under the supervision of a member of the department. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
1923:Permission of the instructor. Readings in economics and beginning of directed research on an honors thesis. Required of all candidates for graduation with honors in economics. 
1924:Permission of the instructor. Completion of an honors thesis under the direction of a member of the faculty. Required of all candidates for graduation with honors in economics. 
1925:Permission of the department. This capstone course advances PHIL 384, focusing on such theoretical and philosophical issues as the analysis of rights or distributive justice and the institutional implications of moral forms. 
1926:Comic books, Manga, and the graphic novel have almost vanished from the realm of serious literature. Recently, graphic literature has addressed controversial topics and reached readers across the globe. We will explore graphic literature's unique ability to be a medium for the marginal and oppressed in the 21st century. 
1927:Specials topics course. Content will vary each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
1928:Major works of literature central to the formation of Western culture from antiquity to 1750. Considers epic, lyric, drama, and prose; core authors such as Homer, Virgil, Dante, and Milton. 
1929:This course focuses on the literary mode of romance, with particular attention to cross-cultural contact and exchange from classical antiquity to the present in both European and non-European literature. 
1930:This course focuses on the literary mode of romance, with particular attention to cross-cultural contact and exchange from classical antiquity to the present in both European and non-European literature. 
1931:This course offers students a survey of mutually supportive developments in literature and the visual arts from classical antiquity until around 1700. 
1932:This course offers students a survey of mutually supportive developments in literature and the visual arts from classical antiquity until around 1700. 
1933:This course examines comparative literary texts in literature and political philosophy in the context of developments in political thought and practice from classical Greece through the French Revolution. 
1934:This course examines developments in literary and scientific thought, including the literary depiction of the disciplines of natural philosophy, including magic, cosmology, natural history, and physiology. 
1935:An introduction to some of the major texts of 19th- and 20th-century literature, focusing on periods of romanticism, realism, and modernism and with some attention given to parallel developments in the arts and philosophy. 
1936:An introduction to some of the major texts of 19th- and 20th-century literature, focusing on periods of romanticism, realism, and modernism and with some attention given to parallel developments in the arts and philosophy. 
1937:Using readings in literature and philosophy, as well as film screenings, this course explores comparative literature's reconciliation over time of its own, predominantly Western, lineage with other non-Western textual traditions. 
1938:The focus of this course is inquiry into how we theorize the existence of the African diaspora, cultural identity/-ies, and the role that performance plays in the articulation of experiences. 
1939:This course studies the intersection between word and image, especially verbal and photographic cultural production, in the representation of the Americas in the hemispheric sense from the mid-18th century to present. 
1940:Introduces students to representative literary and intellectual texts from 1750 to the present and to relevant techniques of literary analysis. Works originally written in foreign languages are studied in translation. 
1941:Introduces students to representative literary and intellectual texts from 1750 to the present and to relevant techniques of literary analysis. Works originally written in foreign languages are studied in translation. 
1942:This course surveys the visual arts, in particular painting and photography, from roughly 1750 to the present. Pictorial traditions, styles, and genres (as well as the traditions of critical writing that respond to them) will be considered from a proto-cinematic perspective. Theater and the novel may also be examined comparatively. 
1943:This course is designed to introduce students to the field of global cinema and, thence, to the methods of comparativist film study. 
1944:This course introduces students to a set of topics or traditions in global film culture that would not customarily be covered in other courses required for the film minor. It focuses on significant films at the periphery of the film studies canon and offers ample opportunity for group discussion. 
1945:An introduction to the literatures of Eastern Europe, including consideration of political influences on literary creation within different cultural traditions. 
1946:This course examines the fiction of Jane Austen and her literary and cultural influence across the globe. We will see echoes of Austen in novels and films from around the world and explore how her work transcends generational, cultural, and geographical boundaries. What is the secret of her global appeal? 
1947:This course examines the fiction of Jane Austen and her literary and cultural influence across the globe. We will see echoes of Austen in novels and films from around the world and explore how her work transcends generational, cultural, and geographical boundaries. What is the secret of her global appeal? 
1948:Close study of Cervantes' Don Quixote, its reception and impact on varied works of world literature. 
1949:Recommended preparation, ENGL 225 or familiarity with at least four Shakespeare plays. Explores the afterlife of Shakespeare's plays from a transnational and multidisciplinary perspective, paying attention to the ways in which several of his plays have been dislocated and reconstituted for different audiences and different artistic and political aims. 
1950:Traces major points of convergence among the thematic concerns of medieval literature, global cinema, and academic constructions of "the Middle Ages." Considers the aesthetic and technological development of film and of medieval painting, sculpture, and dramatic performance. 
1951:The desert-island scenario involves a sophisticated and culturally central thought experiment in which the constraints of history and society are suspended and human nature is exposed in its essence. This course considers the permutations of this scenario in film and fiction from around the world. 
1952:This course introduces students to debates in classical and post- classical film theory. Likely topics include medium specificity; the ideological functions of narrative cinema; film theory's investments in psychoanalysis, linguistics, semiotics, and phenomenology; the advent of digital media; feminism; national and transnational cinema; spectatorship; authorship; genre theory; and film and philosophy. 
1953:This communications-intensive course familiarizes students with the theory and practice of comparative literature: the history of literary theory; translation; and literature combined with disciplines such as music, architecture, and philosophy. 
1954:Familiarizes students with the theory and practice of comparative literature. Against a background of classical poetics and rhetoric, explores various modern literary theories, including Russian formalism, Frankfurt School, feminism, psychoanalysis, deconstruction, new historicism, and others. All reading in theory is paired with that of literary texts drawn from a wide range of literary periods and national traditions. 
1955:This course examines popular culture in Southeast Asia as a response to colonialism, nationalism, modernization, the state, and globalization. Topics include theater, film, pop songs, television, rituals, and the Internet. 
1956:This course traces the development of horror in film and writing from the 18th-century European novel to contemporary Asian film. Theoretical readings will embrace a range of disciplines, from literary and film theory to anthropology, feminism and gender studies, and psychoanalysis. 
1957:Comparative and interdisciplinary study of feasting and its philosophical underpinnings, with special attention to the multiple purposes and nuances of food and feasting in literature, film, and the visual arts. 
1958:Comparative and interdisciplinary study of feasting and its philosophical underpinnings, with special attention to the multiple purposes and nuances of food and feasting in literature, film, and the visual arts. 
1959:This course surveys world cinema in the attempt to identify the disjunctions that sever past and present. This course will ask the most basic questions: What is the nature of modernity? What are the challenges of modernity? How does the modern experience differ across the globe? 
1960:Explores how human interaction with the natural world is represented in the literary, visual, and performing arts from Roman fresco to the ecological art and fiction of the 21st century. Students conduct mentored research at Ackland Art Museum with peer and faculty feedback at every stage. 
1961:A study of the role of Jews and the "Jewish question" in German culture from 1750 to the Holocaust and beyond. Discussions and texts (literary, political, theological) in English. 
1962:Analyzes literature of pilgrimage, a literal or figurative journey of transformation, from a variety of times and cultures from classical antiquity to the present, including such works as Apuleius' Golden Ass, Cervantes' Persiles, and Basho's Narrow Road to the Deep North. 
1963:Traces the development of European short fiction from the 12th through the 17th centuries, taking brief looks backward toward the ancient world and forward to the modern short story. 
1964:Considers fairy tales from several different national traditions and historical periods against the backdrop of folklore, literature, psychoanalysis, and the socializing forces directed at children. .Students may not receive credit for both GERM 279/CMPL 279 and GERM 54. 
1965:This course introduces students to the methods of genre theory and analysis as they pertain to cinema. The course may either provide a survey of several different genres or examine a particular genre in depth as it has evolved historically. National and/or transnational dimensions of popular genres may be emphasized. 
1966:A critical look at varieties of cinematic representation and memorialization of the Holocaust, from those countries of Europe where it mostly took place. Taught in English. All films in (or subtitled in) English. 
1967:Survey of masterpieces of Russian literature in the context of their cinematic adaptations. Lectures and readings in English. 
1968:Representative examples of Arthurian literature from the Middle Ages and 19th and 20th centuries, with some attention to film, art, and music. 
1969:Focuses on the construction of cultural identities in French films within a European context from the 1980s until today. 
1970:Study of classical writers' influence on selected genres of English poetry. 
1971:Study of classical writers' influence on selected genres of English poetry. 
1972:The development of a women's literary tradition in the works of such writers as George Sand, George Eliot, Isak Dinesen, Colette, Virginia Woolf, Gertrude Stein, Marguerite Duras, Nathalie Sarraute, Marguerite Yourcenar. 
1973:The challenge the New Wave presented to postwar cinema by pointing to Hollywood and other European films; the New Wave's influence on United States and European cinema beginning in the 1970s. Taught in English. 
1974:A consideration of authors of the Beat Generation, including Jack Kerouac, Diane di Prima, William S. Burroughs, and Allen Ginsberg, particularly with regard to their interest in narrative depictions, poetics, and other meditations that bear on crossing national and territorial borders. 
1975:Cross-cultural definitions of heroism, individualism, and authority in film and fiction, with emphasis on tales or images that have been translated across cultures. Includes films of Ford, Kurosawa, and Visconti. 
1976:Cross-cultural definitions of heroism, individualism, and authority in film and fiction, with emphasis on tales or images that have been translated across cultures. Includes films of Ford, Kurosawa, and Visconti. 
1977:Authors' use of narrative techniques to create the separation between heroines and their fictional societies and sometimes also to alienate readers from the heroines. Austen, Flaubert, Ibsen, Arishima, Tanizaki, Abe. 
1978:Examines the complex aesthetic relationship between cinema and nature through a range of different genres, traditions, and theoretical frameworks. Films in which natural landscape, animals, and/or plant life receive special attention may be addressed. Thinkers as disparate as Kant, Thoreau, and recent proponents of eco-critical perspectives may be deployed. 
1979:Examines the presentation of medical practice in literature from the mid-19th century to the present. Readings include some medical history, novels, stories, and recent autobiographies of medical training. 
1980:Examines the presentation of medical practice in literature from the mid-19th century to the present. Readings include some medical history, novels, stories, and recent autobiographies of medical training. 
1981:Literary portrayal of adolescence in times of cultural upheaval. Although adolescence is often considered a transitional period from carefree childhood to responsible adulthood, we focus on works that explore adolescence primarily as a creative quest for a more meaningful way of life than the one bequeathed by the previous generation. 
1982:Course topics vary from semester to semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
1983:Overview of those realms of modern and contemporary thought and writing that are known as, and closely associated with, "critical theory. 
1984:This course examines the shifting nature of the cinematic medium in relation to both traditional photography and newer digital forms of image production. The aesthetic, ethical, and ontological aspects of cinema are explored in light of emergent technological and cultural conditions that demand a full-scale reconsideration of cinema's specificity. 
1985:This course explores consciousness through symbols. Symbols from religion, art, politics, and self are studied in social, psychological, historical, and ecological context to ascertain meanings in experience and behavior. 
1986:Comparative study of representative works on literary and cultural theory or applied criticism to be announced in advance. 
1987:Study of selected examples of Western medieval literature in translation, with particular attention to the development of varieties of sensibility in various genres and at different periods. 
1988:Readings of major works of medieval European literature in translation from the 12th to 15th centuries, focusing on topics such as courtship, marriage, adultery, homoeroticism, domestic violence, mystical visions, and prostitution. 
1989:Discussion of the major works of Petrarch, Boccaccio, Machiavelli, Castiglione, Ariosto, Tasso, Rabelais, Ronsard, Montaigne, Cervantes, and Erasmus. 
1990:Discussion of the major works of Petrarch, Boccaccio, Machiavelli, Castiglione, Ariosto, Tasso, Rabelais, Ronsard, Montaigne, Cervantes, and Erasmus. 
1991:English, French, and German 18th-century narrative fiction with emphasis on epistolary novel. The relation of the novel to the Enlightenment and its counterpart, the cult of sentimentality, and on shifting paradigms for family education, gender, and erotic desire. 
1992:The development of the moral aesthetic of sensibility or Empfindsamkeit in literature of western Europe in the late 18th and early 19th centuries. 
1993:Research-intensive course that explores how the Romantic movement beginning in 18th-century Europe has shaped the world we experience now. Topics vary and include revolutionary republicanism; slavery and abolition; quests for originality, expressiveness, and spiritual renovation; critiques of progress and modern urban culture; and revaluations of the natural world. 
1994:An exploration of the period concept of Realism through selected works by such writers as George Eliot, Dickens, James, Dostoevsky, Tolstoy, Balzac, Stendhal, Flaubert, Zola. 
1995:This course examines surrealism as an inter-art development between the First and Second World Wars. Taking a comparativist view, it focuses mainly on cinema but explores surrealist literature, painting, and sculpture as well. Much of the course traces the continuing relevance of surrealist practices in contemporary cinema. 
1996:The Naturalist movement in European and American literature of the late 19th and early 20th centuries, focusing on its philosophical, psychological, and literary manifestations in selected plays and novels. 
1997:An exploration of the period concept of modernism in European literature, with attention to central works in poetry, narrative, and drama, and including parallel developments in the visual arts. 
1998:Aestheticism as a discrete 19th-century movement and as a major facet of modernism in literature and literary theory. Authors include Kierkegaard, Baudelaire, Nietzche, Huysmans, Wilde, Mann, Rilke, Nabokov, Dinesen, Barthes, Sontag. 
1999:This course traces Milan Kundera's literary path from his communist poetic youth to his present postmodern Francophilia . His work will be compared with those authors he considers his predecessors and influences in European literature. Taught in English. Some readings in Czech for qualified students. 
2000:History and theory of tragedy as a distinctive literary genre and as a more general literary and cultural problem. Authors include Aeschylus, Sophocles, Euripides, Shakespeare, Racine, Goethe, Nietzsche, Wagner, Mann, Samuel I and II, Faulkner. Also engages theorists, ancient and modern. 
2001:Explores how the theory and practice of classical, medieval, and early modern rhetoric continue to challenge and stimulate contemporary theory. Two-thirds of the course examines texts written before 1750. 
2002:The main currents of European drama from the end of the 19th century to the present. Includes Chekhov, Strindberg, Pirandello, Lorca, Brecht, Anouilh. 
2003:An exploration of different expressions of medieval drama and pageantry, including plays, tournaments, public executions, and religious processions. 
2004:Exploration of Vladimir Nabokov's prose fiction written in Germany and America. Emphasis placed on the primary texts, but some secondary readings included. Movies based on Nabokov's novels will be viewed as well. Readings in Russian for majors, in English for nonmajors. 
2005:A comparative study of Chaucer's Canterbury Tales, Boccaccio's Decameron, and the earliest known version of the Arabian Nights. Knowledge of Middle English desirable, but students with no experience in the language will be able to attend tutorial sessions early in the semester. 
2006:The uses of literary silence for purposes such as protest, civility, joy, oppression, nihilism, awe, or crisis of representation. Authors include Sterne, Goethe, Austen, Kawabata, Soseki, Oe, Toson, Camus, Mann. 
2007:Philosophical readings of literary texts, including novels, plays, and poems. 
2008:The study of the influence of Western texts upon Japanese authors and the influence of conceptions of "the East" upon Western writers. Goldsmith, Voltaire, Soseki, Sterne, Arishima, Ibsen, Yoshimoto, Ishiguro. 
2009:An examination of central trends in 20th-century narrative. 
2010:Changing understandings of nature across time and cultures, especially with regard to its human manipulation and as portrayed in novels of Japan and Europe. Rousseau, Goethe, Austen, Abe, Mishima. 
2011:Changing understandings of nature across time and cultures, especially with regard to its human manipulation and as portrayed in novels of Japan and Europe. Rousseau, Goethe, Austen, Abe, Mishima. 
2012:Love and sexuality in literary works from various historical periods and genres. Authors include Sappho, Plato, Catullus, Propertius, Ovid, Dante, Petrarch, Shakespeare, LaClos, Goethe, Nabokov, and Roland Barthes. 
2013:Topics vary from semester to semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
2014:An exploration of the concept of the fourth dimension, its origins in non- Euclidean geometry, its development in popular culture, and its impact on the visual arts, film, and literature. 
2015:Examines aesthetic, political, and philosophical aspects of essay films in international cinema. Focusing on works by figures such as Chris Marker, Orson Welles, Harun Farocki, Alexander Kluge, Guy Debord, and Jean-Luc Godard, the course traces the genre's literary roots and addresses how the essay deviates from more traditional documentary forms. 
2016:Readings vary from semester to semester. The course is generally offered for three credits. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2017:This seminar allows comparative literature majors to work on an independent project to synthesize their curricular experience, and it introduces them to current, broadly applicable issues in comparative literature. 
2018:An investigation of the social, poiltical, and literary uses of corpses in the Middle Ages. 
2019:Permission of the instructor. Reading knowledge of a language other than English recommended. Starting from the proposition that cultural literacy would be impossible without reliance on translations, this course addresses fundamental issues in the practice, art, and politics of literary translation. 
2020:Recommended preparation, FREN 370, one course from ENGL 225-229, or one course from CMPL 120-124. Study of French-English literary relations in the Renaissance, focusing on literary adaptation and appropriation, poetics, political writing, and related areas. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2021:British and continental Arthurian literature in translation from the early Middle Ages to Sir Thomas Malory. 
2022:An examination of medieval engagements with the foreign and the extent to which those engagements challenged conventional ways of thinking about the world. 
2023:Required preparation, one course from CMPL 120-129. Analysis of the Baroque as an aesthetic movement, including major, representative literary works, comparisons of literature and the visual arts, and the study of theories of the Baroque and Neo-Baroque. Authors studied may include Tasso, Racine, Cervantes, and Shakespeare, among others. 
2024:Two years of college-level Spanish or the equivalent strongly recommended. Multidisciplinary examination of texts and other media of the Americas, in English and Spanish, from a variety of genres. 
2025:Required of all students reading for honors in comparative literature. 
2026:Required of all students reading for honors in comparative literature. 
2027:Each student will complete a service-learning internship and compose a multimedia documentary about the experience using original text, photos, audio, and video. 
2028:How do computers change the study of literature? How do images tell stories? How is writing evolving through photo essays, collages, and digital video? Students investigate these and related questions. 
2029:The seminar's purpose is to explore the African American slave narrative tradition from its 19th-century origins in autobiography to its present manifestations in prize-winning fiction and film. 
2030:Examination of literary and cinematic works that expose the cultural impact World War I had on contemporary and future generations. 
2031:This first-year seminar emphasizes contemporary autobiographical writing by and about women. Students investigate questions of self and identity by reading and writing four genres of life writing: autobiography, autoethnography, biography, and personal essay. Both traditional written and new media composing formats will be practiced. Students may not receive credit for both ENGL 55 and ENGL 134H. 
2032:This first-year seminar emphasizes contemporary autobiographical writing by and about women. Students investigate questions of self and identity by reading and writing four genres of life writing: autobiography, autoethnography, biography, and personal essay. Both traditional written and new media composing formats will be practiced. Students may not receive credit for both ENGL 55H and ENGL 134H. 
2033:The course covers a range of fictions about colonialism and its aftermath, exploring both narrative and filmic depictions of empire and its legacies. 
2034:This class will investigate the forms and cultural functions of science fiction using films, books, and computer-based fictional spaces (Internet, video games, etc). 
2035:Latina/o Short Fiction. 3 Credits. Course will examine the aesthetic and cultural functions and implications of textual images of photography and photographs in United States Latina/o short stories from the 1960s to the present. 
2036:Latina/o Short Fiction. 3 Credits. Course will examine the aesthetic and cultural functions and implications of textual images of photography and photographs in United States Latina/o short stories from the 1960s to the present. 
2037:This first year seminar will use literature, film, and popular culture to explore different expressions of masculinity and femininity in the African American and Black diasporic context. Students will evaluate how artists use gender and sexuality for social critique and artistic innovation. 
2038:This course will focus on issues of intellectual freedom and censorship, with particular attention to the ways in which these issues are racialized. 
2039:This course will focus on issues of intellectual freedom and censorship, with particular attention to the ways in which these issues are racialized. 
2040:An investigation of how the tradition of children's books addresses and negotiates central questions of existence and conduct, focusing on the ways ethical problems are formed in such literature. 
2041:Students will read more than 100 sonnets, learn the sonnet's different forms, and relate them to the cultural environments in which they were written over the past four centuries. 
2042:Students will read examples of several kinds of travel literature, e.g., voyage, pilgrimage, exploration, tour, and mission. Special attention to North Carolina as a tourist venue. 
2043:The evolution of leftist American literature from the Depression through the early Cold War. Authors include Mary McCarthy, Clifford Odets, Arthur Miller, Saul Bellow, and others. 
2044:Study of the medieval concept of courtly love, tracing its classical antecedents, its expression in Renaissance literature (especially Shakespeare), and its influence in modern culture. 
2045:This course explores the human struggle to make sense of suffering and debility. Texts are drawn from literature, anthropology, film, art history, philosophy, and biology. 
2046:This course explores the human struggle to make sense of suffering and debility. Texts are drawn from literature, anthropology, film, art history, philosophy, and biology. 
2047:This first-year seminar will introduce students to college-level critical analysis, writing, and oral communication by exploring representations of the 9/11 attacks and the "war on terrorism" in literature and popular culture. 
2048:This is a course about literature and war and what they might teach us about each other. Our work will be oriented around one central question: what, if anything, can a work of art help us see or understand about war that cannot be shown by other means? 
2049:In this course, students will study epic and anti-epic strains in Western literature, reading key texts in the epic tradition from Homer and Virgil through the 20th century in light of various challenges to that tradition and tensions within it. 
2050:The aim of the course is to give beginning university students the requisite research skills to allow them to appreciate and to contribute to an understanding of the past by directly experiencing and interpreting records from the past. Students will actually get to work with historical documents, some more than 200 years old. 
2051:This course will explore the concept of globalization by focusing on the Asian diaspora, particularly the artistic and cultural productions that document, represent, and express Global Asians. 
2052:Narratives of women spies, social reformers, missionaries, teachers, blockade runners, and escapees from slavery help uncover persuasive strategies used to challenge the limited roles to which women were assigned. 
2053:Class members will reflect upon Brontë's Jane Eyre (1847) in its original contexts and study subsequent novels and films that engage with it. What makes a literary work a "classic"? How do later readers' concerns affect their responses? Lovers of Jane Eyre are welcome, as are newcomers and skeptics. 
2054:Our objective throughout will be to analyze how literary art simultaneously demonizes and celebrates the "miracle of the marketplace" and those financial pioneers that perform its magic. 
2055:Our objective throughout will be to analyze how literary art simultaneously demonizes and celebrates the "miracle of the marketplace" and those financial pioneers that perform its magic. 
2056:This course is a cross-cultural and intermedial exploration of the imagery of the Great City in high modernist works of literature, art, and film. 
2057:This course focuses on the fiction of Jane Austen and its representations in film. 
2058:This course focuses on the fiction of Jane Austen and its representations in film. 
2059:This course will explore stories about the Japanese American internment from first person memoirs to contemporary fiction. We will also examine the ramifications, historic and legal, of the internment post-9/11. 
2060:Content varies by semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2061:Content varies by semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2062:Required for incoming students with SAT I Writing scores of 460 or lower. Provides frequent practice in writing, from short paragraphs to longer papers, focusing on analysis and argument. Workshop format. 
2063:Required of all students except those exempted by placement tests. Students practice the writing conventions that define social, cultural, and professional communities. Up to nine papers, including research projects. 
2064:Required of all students except those exempted by placement tests. Students practice the writing conventions that define various academic disciplines. Up to nine papers, including research projects. Students may not receive credit for ENGL 102 and ENGL 102I or ENGL 105. 
2065:This college-level course focuses on written and oral argumentation, composition, research, information literacy, and rhetorical analysis. The course introduces students to the specific disciplinary contexts for written work and oral presentations required in college courses. Students may not receive credit for both ENGL 102 and ENGL 105. 
2066:Required of English majors. Survey of medieval, Renaissance, and neoclassical periods. Drama, poetry, and prose. 
2067:Required of English majors. Survey of medieval, Renaissance, and neoclassical periods. Drama, poetry, and prose. 
2068:This course (or ENGL 150) is required of English majors. Seminar focusing on later British literature. Students learn methods of literary study and writing about literature. 
2069:Representative authors from the time of European colonization of the New World through the 20th century. 
2070:Novels and shorter fiction by Defoe, Austen, Dickens, Faulkner, Wolfe, Fitzgerald, Joyce, and others. 
2071:The literature of the present generation. 
2072:A course designed to develop basic skills in reading poems from all periods of English and American literature. 
2073:Drama of the Greek, Renaissance, and modern periods. 
2074:Course emphasizes literature, critical thinking, and the writing process. Students learn how thinking, reading, and writing relate to one another by studying poetry, fiction, drama, art, music, and film. 
2075:A study of approximately six major American authors drawn from Emerson, Thoreau, Hawthorne, Melville, Stowe, Whitman, Clemens, Dickinson, Chesnutt, James, Eliot, Stein, Hemingway, O'Neill, Faulkner, Hurston, or others. 
2076:Studies in African American, Asian American, Hispanic American, Native American, Anglo-Indian, Caribbean, gay-lesbian, and other literatures written in English. 
2077:Sophomores only. A course in reading and writing poems. Close study of a wide range of published poetry and of poetic terms and techniques. Composition, discussion, and revision of original student poems. Students may not receive credit for both ENGL 131 and ENGL 133H. 
2078:First-year honors students only. A close study of the craft of the short story and novella through a wide range of reading, with emphasis on technical strategies. Class discussion of student exercises and stories. Students may not receive credit for both ENGL 130 and ENGL 132H. 
2079:First-year honors students only. A close study of a wide range of published poems and of the basic terms and techniques of poetry. Composition, discussion, and revision of a number of original poems.Students may not receive credit for both ENGL 131 and ENGL 133H. 
2080:First-year honors students only. This course focuses on women's life writing, including autobiography, biography, autoethnography, personal essay. Includes theories of life writing. Students will read contemporary works in each genre and write their own versions. Students may not receive credit for both ENGL 55 and ENGL 134H. 
2081:First-year honors students only. Study of literary forms (epic, drama, lyric, novel), beginning in the fall term and concluding in the spring, with three hours credit for each term. Students should consult the assistant dean for honors or the Department of English and Comparative Literature for offerings. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2082:In this course students learn to study emergent relationships between print and digital literary cultures. In addition to reading and discussion, the course requires that students conduct original research (individual and also collaborative) in both print and digital formats. 
2083:A course in reading and writing creative nonfiction, prose based in fact, but treated in a literary manner, e.g., personal essays, travel narratives, science and nature writing, immersive interviews and profiles, reportage, and belles-lettres. Composition, class discussion, and revision of work written for this class. 
2084:This course provides a systematic introduction to the field of sexuality studies, using a broad range of disciplinary perspectives to study human sexuality in its various functions and forms. 
2085:Introduces students to concepts in queer theory and recent sexuality studies. Topics include queer lit, AIDS, race and sexuality, representations of gays and lesbians in the media, political activism/literature. 
2086:This course will be a basic introduction to literatures in English from Africa, the Caribbean, South Asia, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, and other Anglophone literary traditions. 
2087:This course offers an introduction to the technical, formal, and narrative elements of the cinema. 
2088:This course offers an introduction to the technical, formal, and narrative elements of the cinema. 
2089:Examines the ways culture shapes and is shaped by film. This course uses comparative methods to contrast films as historic or contemporary, mainstream or cutting-edge, in English or a foreign language, etc. 
2090:Introductory course on popular literary genres. Students will read and discuss works in the area of mystery, romance, westerns, science fiction, children's literature, and horror fiction. 
2091:Studies in genres including drama, poetry, prose fiction, or nonfiction prose, examining form, comparing that genre to others (including popular genres), placing works within a tradition or a critical context. 
2092:Studies in genres including drama, poetry, prose fiction, or nonfiction prose, examining form, comparing that genre to others (including popular genres), placing works within a tradition or a critical context. 
2093:Readings in and theories of science fiction, utopian and dystopian literatures, and fantasy fiction. 
2094:Studies in classic and contemporary mystery and detective fiction. 
2095:From its origins in Gothic and pre-Gothic literatures and arts, this course examines the complexities and pleasures of horror. Topics include psychology, aesthetics, politics, allegory, ideology, and ethics. 
2096:This class studies contemporary, networked writing spaces. The class will investigate electronic networks, linking them with literacy, creativity, and collaboration. The course also explores multimodal composing. Students will develop projects using images, audio, video, and words. Topics include the rhetoric of the Internet, online communities, and digital composition. 
2097:Sophomore English majors only. This course (or ENGL 121) is required of English majors. Introduces students to methods of literary study. Students learn to read and interpret a range of literary works, develop written and oral arguments about literature, and conduct literary research. 
2098:This course examines a number of visual texts, including graphic novels and emerging narrative forms that include visuals as well as words. The course explores how meaning can be conveyed through the composition, juxtaposition, and framing of images as well as through the relationship between words and images. 
2099:Introduces students to the field of literary studies while emphasizing a single writer, group, movement, theme, or period. Students conduct research, develop readings, and compose literary interpretations. 
2100:An introduction to the study of creativity and aesthetic expression in everyday life, considering both traditional genres and contemporary innovations in the material, verbal, and musical arts. 
2101:Permission of the program director. Substantial practice in those techniques employed in introductory course. A workshop devoted to the extensive writing of fiction (at least two short stories), with an emphasis on style, structure, dramatic scene, and revision. 
2102:Permission of the program director. An intensification of the introductory class. A workshop devoted to close examination of selected exemplary poems and the students' own poetry, with an emphasis on regular writing and revising. 
2103:Permission of the program director. A course in reading and writing creative nonfiction, focusing on three of its most important forms, including the personal essay, travel writing, and writing on the natural world. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2104:Permission of the program director. A course in reading and writing children's fiction, focusing on five important forms: folk tale, fairy tale, picture book, young adult, and biography. 
2105:Permission of the program director. A course in reading and writing young adult fiction, with a focus on the crafting of a novel. 
2106:Introduction to the study of rhetoric, composition, and digital literacy. Students will survey the history of the discipline of rhetoric and composition, from its roots in ancient rhetoric to its current status, practice different approaches to composing, and/or perform rhetorical criticism and analysis of texts, images, and multimedia. 
2107:A survey of representative comedies, tragedies, histories, and romances by William Shakespeare. 
2108:A survey of Renaissance drama focusing on contemporaries and successors of Shakespeare during the Elizabethan and Jacobean periods. 
2109:A survey of Renaissance drama focusing on contemporaries and successors of Shakespeare during the Elizabethan and Jacobean periods. 
2110:Poetry and prose of the earlier Renaissance, including More, Wyatt, Sidney, Spenser, Bacon, and Marlowe. 
2111:Poetry and prose of the earlier Renaissance, including More, Wyatt, Sidney, Spenser, Bacon, and Marlowe. 
2112:Poetry and prose from the late Elizabethan years through the "century of revolution" into the Restoration period after 1660: Donne, Jonson, Bacon, Herbert, Burton, Browne, Marvell, Herrick, and others. 
2113:Poetry and prose from the late Elizabethan years through the "century of revolution" into the Restoration period after 1660: Donne, Jonson, Bacon, Herbert, Burton, Browne, Marvell, Herrick, and others. 
2114:A study of Milton's prose and poetry in the extraordinary context of 17th- century philosophy, politics, religion, science, and poetics, and against the backdrop of the English Civil War. 
2115:A study of Milton's prose and poetry in the extraordinary context of 17th- century philosophy, politics, religion, science, and poetics, and against the backdrop of the English Civil War. 
2116:An introductory exploration of key topics in the literatures of the Caribbean basin, Bermuda, and the Caribbean diaspora. 
2117:Students will develop a working knowledge of American Indian cultural concepts and historical perspectives utilizing poetry, history, personal account, short stories, films, and novels. 
2118:Practice of "close reading" over a diverse selection of novels, short stories, and lyric poems. Intended for students who have declared, or who will soon declare, the English major. 
2119:An introduction to literary criticism in English studies, with an emphasis on historical developments from Plato to the present. 
2120:An introduction to literary criticism in English studies, with an emphasis on historical developments from Plato to the present. 
2121:Intensive study, focused on gender issues of criticism and writing. 
2122:Intensive study, focused on gender issues, of criticism and writing. 
2123:Considers texts in a comparative ethnic/race studies framework and examines how these texts explore historical and contemporary connections between groups of people in the United States and the Americas. 
2124:Considers texts in a comparative ethnic/race studies framework and examines how these texts explore historical and contemporary connections between groups of people in the United States and the Americas. 
2125:Introductory exploration of the relation between science and literature, as well as the place and value of both in the contemporary world. 
2126:Introductory exploration of the relation between science and literature, as well as the place and value of both in the contemporary world. 
2127:This interdisciplinary course will examine what it means to grow up Latina/o through an exploration of childhood narratives, linguistic debates, education policies and legislation, and censored books. 
2128:An introduction to key topics that focus on questions of representation at the intersections of medicine, literature, and culture. 
2129:An introduction to key topics that focus on questions of representation at the intersections of medicine, literature, and culture. 
2130:This course will introduce students to the key critical concepts, debates, and questions of practice in the emerging scholarly field of disability studies. 
2131:This course introduces students to the study of Asian American literature and culture. The focus of the course may include examining coming-of- age novels, immigration narratives, or other genre explorations. 
2132:This service-learning course is partnered with a charter school, and together UNC-Chapel Hill and high school students will explore issues of race in American literature and culture. 
2133:Approaches to the literary interpretation of drama, stressing original research into literary history, genre, and social and cultural contexts, with an emphasis on current plays staged in area theater. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2134:This course introduces major texts and current themes, from Joyce to the postcolonial, in Irish writing from 1800 to 2000. 
2135:This course investigates the rich and complex relationship between literature and other mass media. 
2136:Students will analyze various types of travel literature, such as voyage, pilgrimage, and tour, in terms of literary conventions, historical conditions, and considerations of gender, ethnicity, economics, empire, and religion. 
2137:Students will analyze various types of travel literature, such as voyage, pilgrimage, and tour, in terms of literary conventions, historical conditions, and considerations of gender, ethnicity, economics, empire, and religion. 
2138:Exploration of different forms of life writing such as autobiography, biography, and autoethnography. Readings will include theories of autobiography and selected literature. 
2139:Exploration of different forms of life writing such as autobiography, biography, and autoethnography. Readings will include theories of autobiography and selected literature. 
2140:An overview of the tradition of children's literature, considering the ways those books point to our basic assumptions about meaning, culture, self, society, gender, economics. 
2141:A survey of Greek and Roman epic and lyric poetry, literary criticism and philosophy designed for the undergraduate English major. 
2142:In this course students will read early 20th-century poetry, fiction, films, and criticism, and consider the ways these works constituted, defined, and challenged the phenomenon known as literary modernism. 
2143:Through readings in a wide range of genres, this course will examine major factors and influences shaping Jewish American literature and culture in the 20th century. 
2144:A history of illustrated books for children within the larger tradition of illustrated texts in Britain and America. 
2145:This course considers a range of texts, including children's literature, to focus on the aesthetic, historical, and social factors grounding depictions of childhood. Other material includes literature and visual texts in various forms. The course stresses original student research. 
2146:Guides students through the processes of developing an original research topic, conducting research, and analyzing research, leading students to produce a high-quality presentation of their findings. Topic varies by instructor but may focus on literary studies or closely-related arenas such as medical humanities, digital humanities, and creative writing, among others. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
2147:Guides students through the processes of developing an original research topic, conducting research, and analyzing research, leading students to produce a high-quality presentation of their findings. Topic varies by instructor but may focus on literary studies or closely-related arenas such as medical humanities, digital humanities, and creative writing, among others. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
2148:Advanced practice with critical, argumentative, and analytic writing, including forms of the essay. Special attention to style, voice, and genre. 
2149:Advanced practice with the oral and written discourse of the humanities. Special attention to disciplinary rhetoric, style, genre, format, and citation. 
2150:Advanced practice with the oral and written discourse of the social sciences. Special attention to disciplinary rhetoric, style, genre, format, and citation. 
2151:Advanced practice with the oral and written discourse of the natural sciences. Special attention to disciplinary rhetoric, style, genre, format, and citation. 
2152:Advanced practice with business and professional oral and written discourse. Special attention to disciplinary rhetoric, style, genre, format, and citation. 
2153:Advanced practice with legal oral and written discourse. Special attention to disciplinary rhetoric, style, genre, format, and citation. 
2154:Permission of the program director. A workshop for people interested in writing plays, focusing on elements that make them work on stage, such as characterization, climax, dialogue, exposition, momentum, setting, and visual effects. 
2155:Permission of the program director. Creative writing minors only. An occasional intermediate course that may focus on such topics as living writers, poetic forms, and imitation, but which is offered every fall as Gram-o-Rama, the study of language and grammar as stylistic tools. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2156:Instructor permission required. This course emphasizes puppetry arts as an expression of literary craft, offering students an immersive, collaborative experience in dramatic writing culminating in scripts acted by puppets. Writing focus will be elements of scene, including character and plot development, and communication by gesture. Puppet building from recyclable materials. 
2157:A study of fairy tales as historical artifacts that reveal the concerns of their times and places, as narrative structures capable of remarkable transformation, and as artistic performances drawing upon the expressive resources of multiple media, intended to challenge conventional presuppositions about the genre. 
2158:This course examines the burgeoning field of the book arts, including artists' books, book sculpture, and zines. Working with the Sloane Art Library's extensive collection, students will examine how the structure of the codex has been used to model radical new forms of creativity, subjectivity, and political engagement. 
2159:This course examines the burgeoning field of the book arts, including artists' books, book sculpture, and zines. Working with the Sloane Art Library's extensive collection, students will examine how the structure of the codex has been used to model radical new forms of creativity, subjectivity, and political engagement. 
2160:An introductory course in descriptive English linguistics that studies the sounds, word-building processes, and sentence structures of current English as well as general notions of correctness and variation. 
2161:A study of the development of English from its Proto-Indo-European origins to modern English, with emphasis on how events and contacts with other languages influenced the vocabulary of English. 
2162:.. 3 Credits. A historical and critical examination of regional, social, and stylistic variation in English in the United States, including correctness, legal and educational issues, and the influence of mass media. 
2163:.. 3 Credits. A historical and critical examination of regional, social, and stylistic variation in English in the United States, including correctness, legal and educational issues, and the influence of mass media. 
2164:Examines histories of rhetorical theory and practice. Students will develop original research projects that expand our understanding of rhetorical traditions. Historical periods, critical perspectives, genres, and topics will vary. 
2165:Examines histories of rhetorical theory and practice. Students will develop original research projects that expand our understanding of rhetorical traditions. Historical periods, critical perspectives, genres, and topics will vary. 
2166:This class explores writing in contemporary networked composing spaces. The course focuses on developing writing projects that study and participate in online social networks. Topics include the rhetoric of the Internet; collaboration online; information ethics; amateur content creation; networks and social interaction; networks and literacy; and remix composition. 
2167:This class studies composing in a variety of modes, including visuals, moving images, gestures, sounds, and words. Students develop projects using image, audio, and video editors, examining how multimedia fits within the history of rhetoric and writing and relates with concerns such as purposes, audiences, contexts, arguments, genres, and mediums. 
2168:This class studies composing in a variety of modes, including visuals, moving images, gestures, sounds, and words. Students develop projects using image, audio, and video editors, examining how multimedia fits within the history of rhetoric and writing and relates with concerns such as purposes, audiences, contexts, arguments, genres, and mediums. 
2169:An introduction to English literature from the eighth to the 15th century, focusing on the primary works of Old English and Middle English literature. 
2170:An introduction to English literature from the eighth to the 15th century, focusing on the primary works of Old English and Middle English literature. 
2171:An introduction to Chaucer's major poetry: Troilus and Criseyde, the "dream" poems (e.g., Parliament of Fowls) and The Canterbury Tales. 
2172:An introduction to Chaucer's major poetry: Troilus and Criseyde, the "dream" poems (e.g., Parliament of Fowls), and The Canterbury Tales. 
2173:Representative examples of Arthurian literature from the Middle Ages and 19th and 20th centuries, with some attention to film, art, and music. 
2174:A study of the external literary influences which shaped Old and Middle English, notably the vernacular literatures of England's Celtic neighbors (Wales, Brittany, Scotland, and Ireland) and/or France. 
2175:A study of the external literary influences which shaped Old and Middle English, notably the vernacular literatures of England's Celtic neighbors (Wales, Brittany, Scotland, and Ireland) and/or France. 
2176:This course explores the wide range of drama produced in England between the 1570s and 1640s, including work by Shakespeare and his many rivals. 
2177:This course explores the wide range of drama produced in England between the 1570s and 1640s, including work by Shakespeare and his many rivals. 
2178:This course traces the historical evolution/devolution of Renaissance literary genres. Each offering will focus on a single generic kind or set of kinds. 
2179:A focused study of one or two intellectual movements of the Renaissance through the literary and nonliterary texts of the period. 
2180:Students will study Renaissance literature while assessing the usefulness and status of a theoretical approach, such as feminist theory, queer theory, cultural materialism, new historicism, or psychoanalytic theory. 
2181:A survey of British literature from Dryden to Paine. 
2182:A survey of British literature from Dryden to Paine. 
2183:A survey of Restoration and 18th-century drama from Etheredge to Sheridan. 
2184:A survey of Restoration and 18th-century drama from Etheredge to Sheridan. 
2185:A survey of 18th-century fiction from Behn to Austen. 
2186:A survey of 18th-century fiction from Behn to Austen. 
2187:This course examines the technical and aesthetic revolutions in the fine arts of the English Romantic Period, focusing on lyrical poetry, landscape painting, and original printmaking and works by Wordsworth, Turner, and Blake. 
2188:This course examines the technical and aesthetic revolutions in the fine arts of the English Romantic Period, focusing on lyrical poetry, landscape painting, and original printmaking and works by Wordsworth, Turner, and Blake. 
2189:Important novelists in the tradition, from Austen to Wilde. 
2190:Important novelists in the tradition, from Austen to Wilde. 
2191:Covers the history of the British theater, 1780 to 1840, with representative plays and closet dramas by playwrights such as Holcroft, Cowley, Inchbald, Baillie, Coleridge, P. B. Shelley, and Byron. 
2192:This course focuses on both the novels of Jane Austen and their fate since publication in the early 19th century. They have inspired countless imitations, over 150 sequels and continuations, and more than 30 full- length films. We will trace the transmission and transformation of the original texts across time and cultures. 
2193:Selected topics or authors in American literature from the period of European colonization of the New World through the onset of the Civil War. 
2194:Selected topics or authors in American literature from the period of European colonization of the New World through the onset of the Civil War. 
2195:Instructors choose authors or topics from the period 1860-1900. The course may be organized chronologically or thematically but is not intended as a survey. 
2196:Instructors choose authors or topics from the period 1860-1900. The course may be organized chronologically or thematically, but is not intended as a survey. 
2197:Instructors choose authors or topics from the period 1900 to 2000. The course may be organized chronologically or thematically but is not intended as a survey. 
2198:Instructors choose authors or topics from the period 1900 to 2000. The course may be organized chronologically or thematically, but is not intended as a survey. 
2199:The development of the American novel from the late 18th century through the 20th century. May proceed chronologically or thematically. 
2200:The development of the American novel from the late 18th century through the 20th century. May proceed chronologically or thematically. 
2201:Content of course varies with instructor, but students are given a sense of the chronological, stylistic, and thematic development of American poetry over two centuries. 
2202:Content of course varies with instructor, but students are given a sense of the chronological, stylistic, and thematic development of American poetry over two centuries. 
2203:Poetry in English from the middle of the 19th century to the present, approached historically, thematically, technically, politically, and aesthetically; concentration on analysis, comparison, and synthesis. 
2204:Poetry in English from the middle of the 19th century to the present, approached historically, thematically, technically, politically, and aesthetically; concentration on analysis, comparison, and synthesis. 
2205:Students will read novels in English, including Joyce, Woolf, and Proust, to explore how writers from across cultures created new strategies to represent the late 19th and 20th century worlds of imperialism, science, and experiment. 
2206:Students will read novels in English, including Joyce, Woolf, and Proust, to explore how writers from across cultures created new strategies to represent the late 19th and 20th century worlds of imperialism, science, and experiment. 
2207:Course studies contemporary British and American fiction through representative works. Intellectual and aesthetic, historical and cultural emphases. May include works from the Anglophone diaspora. 
2208:Course studies contemporary British and American fiction through representative works. Intellectual and aesthetic, historical and cultural emphases. May include works from the Anglophone diaspora. 
2209:This course examines factors shaping British/Commonwealth literature in the 20th century, especially the world wars and the dismantling of the British Empire. We will investigate themes of both nostalgia and anticipation: ways of remembering the past of England and the Empire, and of describing the future of British culture(s). 
2210:This course introduces students to United States Latina feminist theories, literatures, and cultures. Through a blend of genres, students explore historical foundations of Latina feminisms, examining the relationship between Latina feminisms and United States Third World feminisms, and analyze literary and cultural representations of feminist praxis. 
2211:This course covers writings by Asian American women and examines issues of gender, race, and sexuality. 
2212:Theories of feminist criticism in relation to general theory and women's writing. 
2213:Theories of feminist criticism in relation to general theory and women's writing. 
2214:Introduction to the major questions within Latina/o studies in terms of transnationalism, transculturation, ethnicity, race, class, gender, sexuality, systems of value, and aesthetics. 
2215:Introduction to the major questions within Latina/o Studies in terms of transnationalism, transculturation, ethnicity, race, class, gender, sexuality, systems of value, and aesthetics. 
2216:Covers literary works associated with one or more of the major historical migrations, forced and voluntary, and present-day works engaged with globalization. 
2217:Covers literary works associated with one or more of the major historical migrations, forced and voluntary, and present-day works engaged with globalization. 
2218:Course examines relationship of literature to the other arts, especially music and the visual arts, in terms of similar period characteristics, distinct material, and formal constraints. 
2219:Course examines relationship of literature to the other arts, especially music and the visual arts, in terms of similar period characteristics, distinct material, and formal constraints. 
2220:Survey of writers and literary and cultural traditions from the beginning of African American literature to 1930. 
2221:Survey of writers and literary and cultural traditions from the beginning of African American literature to 1930. 
2222:Survey of writers and literary and cultural traditions from 1930 to 1970. 
2223:Survey of writers and literary and cultural traditions from 1930 to 1970. 
2224:Survey of writers and literary and cultural traditions from 1970 to the present. 
2225:Survey of writers and literary and cultural traditions from 1970 to the present. 
2226:This interdisciplinary course explores how issues of health, medicine, and illness are impacted by questions of race in 20th-century American literature and popular culture. Specific areas covered include pain, death, the family and society, reproduction, mental illness, aging, human subject experimentation, the doctor-patient relationship, pesticides, and bioethics. 
2227:This interdisciplinary course explores how issues of health, medicine, and illness are impacted by questions of race in 20th-century American literature and popular culture. Specific areas covered include pain, death, the family and society, reproduction, mental illness, aging, human subject experimentation, the doctor-patient relationship, pesticides, and bioethics. 
2228:This course will consider the themes of globalization and regionalism through an examination of narratives featuring Asians/Asian Americans in the American South. 
2229:An introduction to Southern literature, with emphasis on the 20th-century: fiction, poetry, drama, essays. Representative authors include Faulkner, Wolfe, Williams, Warren, Hurston, Wright, Ransom, Tate, Welty, Chappell, McCullers, O'Connor. 
2230:An introduction to Southern literature, with emphasis on the 20th-century: fiction, poetry, drama, essays. Representative authors include Faulkner, Wolfe, Williams, Warren, Hurston, Wright, Ransom, Tate, Welty, Chappell, McCullers, O'Connor. 
2231:The study of fiction, poetry, plays, and essays by Southern American women writers of the past 200 years, continuing to the present. 
2232:A study of the novels, short stories, and poems produced by North Carolina writers during the literary renaissance of recent decades. 
2233:A broad survey of the cultures of the Celtic-speaking areas, notably Ireland, Wales, Scotland, and Brittany, with special emphasis on language and literature. 
2234:The course offers an introduction to the history of cinema and, in particular, to a period of film history. 
2235:The course offers an introduction to the history of cinema and, in particular, to a period of film history. 
2236:The course introduces students to the complex narrative and rhetorical relationship between literature and cinema. 
2237:An introduction to the many forms of creative nonfiction by contemporary writers. Will include nonfiction literature as well as theoretical and critical responses to such literature. 
2238:An introduction to the many forms of creative nonfiction by contemporary writers. Will include nonfiction literature as well as theoretical and critical responses to such literature. 
2239:Explores various connections of literature and law, including literary depictions of crime, lawyers, and trials; literary conventions of legal documents; and/or shared problems in interpretation of law and literature. 
2240:This course explores how gender and sexuality shapes the literature, politics, and public culture of South Asian immigrant communities in Europe, Africa, the Americas, and other locations outside the Indian subcontinent. 
2241:A study of Canadian literature in English from the late 18th century to the present, with emphasis on 20th-century writing and on the novel. 
2242:What was modernism? When was modernism? Where was modernism? Reading literature and visual art from 1890 to 1940 in Europe, America, and Africa will be key to finding answers. 
2243:This course introduces students to the aims and concerns of authorship study in film through discussion of a major filmmaker's body of work. The course may focus predominantly on a single figure or may compare two or more figures who share certain affinities of theme or style. 
2244:An intensive study of a single writer, group, movement, theme, or period. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
2245:Permission of the department. Intensive reading on a particular topic under the supervision of a member of the staff. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2246:This course combines frequent writing practice with discussions of rhetorical theories and strategies for teaching writing. The course examines ways to design effective writing courses, assignments, and instructional materials. 
2247:This course combines frequent writing practice with an introduction to teaching writing and reading in the elementary grades. Students explore composition theory and learn about effective practices for improving writing. 
2248:This course considers learning to write from three vantage points: personal, social, and contextual. Emphasis on theory, reflective practice, and pedagogy for peer tutoring. 
2249:Permission of the program director. A continuation of the intermediate workshop with emphasis on the short story, novella, and novel. Extensive discussion of student work in class and in conferences with instructor. 
2250:Permission of the program director. A continuation of the intermediate workshop, with increased writing and revising of poems. Extensive discussion of student poetry in class and in conferences with instructor. 
2251:This is a course in popular-songwriting collaboration, a workshop with constant presentation of original songs and close-critiquing of these assignments. Varied assignments including songs for soloists, duos, trios, quartets, and chorus; ballads, folk, jazz, blues, art, and musical- theater songs, etc. 
2252:This course is a collaborative exploration of popular-song lyric writing, requiring numerous drafts written to varied existing musical models-- narrative ballads; hymns; folk, theater, jazz, art, R&B, R&R, and worldbeat songs, etc--to be tried out and worked on in class, as well as in conference. 
2253:This course provides a history of documentary cinema since the beginnings of the medium and surveys different modes and theoretical definitions; or the course may focus largely on a certain mode (such as ethnographic, observational, first-person, cinema vérité, politically activist, found footage compilation, or journalistic investigation). 
2254:This course provides a history of documentary cinema since the beginnings of the medium and surveys different modes and theoretical definitions; or the course may focus largely on a certain mode (such as ethnographic, observational, first-person, cinema vérité, politically activist, found footage compilation, or journalistic investigation). 
2255:This course investigates cultural themes or problems across a wide spectrum of Renaissance authors. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2256:Focuses on particular forms, authors, or issues in the period. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2257:Focuses on particular forms, authors or issues in the period Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2258:Survey of works by Blake, Wordsworth, Coleridge, Byron, Percy and Mary Shelley, Keats, and others. 
2259:Survey of works by Blake, Wordsworth, Coleridge, Byron, Percy and Mary Shelley, Keats, and others. 
2260:Poetry and prose of the Victorian period, including such writers as Tennyson, the Brownings, Arnold, the Brontës, Dickens, G. Eliot. 
2261:Poetry and prose of the Victorian period, including such writers as Tennyson, the Brownings, Arnold, the Brontes, Dickens, G. Eliot. 
2262:The Pre-Raphaelites, Wilde, Conrad, Shaw, and Yeats. 
2263:The Pre-Raphaelites, Wilde, Conrad, Shaw, and Yeats. 
2264:Devoted to British Romantic-period literature's engagement with a literary mode (such as the Gothic) or a historical theme (such as war or abolition) or to an individual author. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2265:Devoted to British Romantic-period literature's engagement with a literary mode (such as the Gothic) or a historical theme (such as war or abolition) or to an individual author. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2266:The study of an individual Victorian writer, a group (such as the Pre- Raphaelites), a theme (such as imperialism), or genre (such as Victorian epic or the serialized novel). Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2267:A junior- or senior-level course devoted to in-depth exploration of an author, group of authors, or topic in American literature to 1860. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2268:A junior- or senior-level course devoted to in-depth exploration of an author, group of authors, or topic in American literature to 1860. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2269:Intensive study of one or more authors or a topic in American literature from the Civil War through 1900. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2270:Intensive study of one or more authors or a topic in American literature from the Civil War through 1900. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2271:A junior- or senior-level course devoted to in-depth exploration of an author, group of authors, or a topic in American literature from 1900 to 2000. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2272:A junior- or senior-level course devoted to in-depth exploration of an author, group of authors, or a topic in American literature from 1900 to 2000. 
2273:American women authors from the beginnings to the present. 
2274:American women authors from the beginnings to the present. 
2275:This course brings together theories of collective and individual memory with questions of aesthetics and narrative while exploring global connections between memory and literature. 
2276:This course examines philosophies of life, its nature and origins, from the ancient Greeks to the enlightenment. 
2277:This course introduces the student to historical and contemporary thinking about poetry and poetic language. Examines the place of poetry in theoretical thinking and theoretical thinking about poetry. 
2278:This course introduces the student to historical and contemporary thinking about poetry and poetic language. Examines the place of poetry in theoretical thinking and theoretical thinking about poetry. 
2279:This course is a multigenre introduction to postcolonial literatures. Topics will include postcolonial Englishes, nationalism, anti-imperialism, postcolonial education, and the intersections between national and gender identities in literature. 
2280:Examines interrelations between cultural difference, aesthetic form, and the representation, production, and conveyance of subjectivity (in particular affect or states of feeling) in texts, other media, and material culture. 
2281:Examines interrelations between cultural difference, aesthetic form, and the representation, production, and conveyance of subjecitivity (in particular affect or states of feeling) in texts, other media, and material culture. 
2282:Examines current issues in literary theory such as the question of authorship, the relation of literary texts to cultural beliefs and values, and to the formation of identities. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2283:Examines current issues in literary theory such as the question of authorship, the relation of literary texts to cultural beliefs and values, and to the formation of identities. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2284:Permission of the instructor. Designed for students accepted as mentors to the Scholars' Latino Initiative (SLI). Students will take this course during their first year as SLI mentors to prepare them as effective mentors to Latina/o high school students. Students cannot receive credit for both ENGL 267 and 467. 
2285:Study of particular aspects of African American literature, such as the work of a major writer or group of writers, an important theme, a key tradition, or a literary period. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2286:Study of particular aspects of African American literature, such as the work of a major writer or group of writers, an important theme, a key tradition, or a literary period. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2287:The study of a particular topic or genre in the literature of the United States South, more focused than students will find in ENGL 373. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2288:This course investigates the ramifications of the development of mass media and popular culture, paying special attention to the transformation of literature. 
2289:This course investigates the ramifications of the development of mass media and popular culture, paying special attention to the transformation of literature. 
2290:Multidisciplinary, thematic investigations into topics in literature and environment that cut across boundaries of history, genre, and culture. Junior/senior level. 
2291:Multidisciplinary, thematic investigations into topics in literature and environment that cut across boundaries of history, genre, and culture. Junior/senior level. 
2292:Oral storytelling may seem old-fashioned, but we tell true (or possibly true) stories every day. We will study personal narratives (about our own experiences) and legends (about improbable, intriguing events), exploring the techniques and structures that make them effective communication tools and the influence of different contexts and audiences. 
2293:Introduces major topics in the interdisciplinary field of critical security studies. Critically analyzing the public construction of risk and security in military, technological, informational, and environmental domains, the course explores major theories that attempt to make sense of the transnational proliferation of violence and risk in historical and contemporary contexts. 
2294:The student will have an opportunity to concentrate on topics and texts central to the study of culture and theory. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2295:The student will have an opportunity to concentrate on topics and texts central to the study of culture and theory. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2296:Permission of the program director. Creative writing minors only. An occasional advanced course, which may focus on such topics as advanced creative nonfiction, editing and publishing, the lyric in song and collaboration between lyricists and composers, the one-act play, and short-short fiction. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2297:Permission of the department. Recommended for students in junior or senior year of study. Intensive mentored research, service learning, field work, creative work, or internship. Requires 30 hours of research, writing, or experiential activities, or 100 hours of internship work, culminating in a written project. 
2298:Students will explore the history of computer-assisted humanities scholarship, from its beginnings in computational linguistics, media studies, and humanities computing to its current incarnation as "digital humanities." The course will provide an introduction to the field and to digital research methodologies and prepare students to develop their own digital projects. 
2299:Examines the ways knowledge from other disciplines can be brought to bear in the analysis of literary works. Questions of disciplinary limits and histories will also be addressed. 
2300:This course is designed to introduce students to a particular historical or cultural aspect of the cinema. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2301:This course is designed to introduce students to a particular historical or cultural aspect of the cinema. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2302:Offered as part of summer study abroad programs in Oxford, London, and Stratford-on-Avon. Students experience plays in performance and as texts, and discuss their literary, dramatic, cultural, and historical aspects. 
2303:Offered as part of summer study abroad programs in Oxford, London, and Stratford-on-Avon. Students experience plays in performance and as texts, and discuss their literary, dramatic, cultural, and historical aspects. 
2304:Introduction to theories of teaching writing in the disciplines for graduate instructors. Students will study discipline-specific conventions of argumentation, genre, and style with attention to pedagogical techniques, assignments, and activities. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2305:The goal of this course is to develop skills in analyzing the rhetorical construction of scientific claims, with a focus on health and medicine as scientific discourse communities. Topics include the structure, argument, and style of scientific genres; visual and digital rhetorics; and the circulation of scientific rhetoric among publics. 
2306:Sociologist Arthur Frank asserts that "whether ill people want to tell stories or not, illness calls for stories." This seminar explores narrative approaches to suffering, healing, and medicine's roles in these processes. Students learn literary and anthropological approaches to examine medically themed works from a range of genres. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2307:A study of current English structure and usage using a traditional approach modified by appropriate contributions from structural and generative grammar, with some attention to the application of linguistics to literary analysis. 
2308:Students will learn to read Old English, the Germanic language spoken by the Anglo-Saxons in Britain from about the middle of the fifth century until the time of the Norman Conquest. Students will study Beowulf, "Caedmon's Hymn", and other selections in poetry and prose. 
2309:British and continental Arthurian literature in translation from the early Middle Ages to Sir Thomas Malory. 
2310:This course will examine drama written and performed in England from 1570 to 1640, situating Shakespeare's plays in relation to others in his generation. 
2311:Studies in a variety of British writers from Rochester to Cowper. 
2312:A survey of the major British Romantic writers, including Blake, Wordsworth, Coleridge, Byron, Percy and Mary Shelley, Keats, with an introduction to the chief scholarly and critical problems of this period. 
2313:An investigation of important texts by 19th-century women writers that considers issues of gender in relation to other important considerations-- tradition, form, culture--with an introduction to the chief scholarly and critical problems of this period. 
2314:A survey of 20th-century English and American drama, poetry, fiction, and criticism. 
2315:A study of literary works written in English concerning World War I, or the Spanish Civil War and World War II, or the Vietnam War. 
2316:A study of literary works written in English concerning World War I, or the Spanish Civil War and World War II, or the Vietnam War. 
2317:The focus is on Shakespeare's various treatments of war in his plays: all his Roman histories, most of his English histories, all his tragedies, even some of his comedies. 
2318:Examines contemporary theoretical issues and critical approaches relevant to the study of literature. 
2319:A history of literary criticism from the Greeks to mid-20th century, focusing on recurrent concerns and classic texts that are indispensable for understanding the practice of literary criticism today. 
2320:This course covers major works of and topics in postcolonial theory. 
2321:This course explores literature, performance art, film, and photography by Latinas and Latinos whose works may be described as "queer" and that question terms and norms of cultural dominance. 
2322:This course explores Latina/o literature about photography in relation to photography by "queer" Latina/o artists and, through this double focus, poses certain questions about identity, subjectivity, and culture. 
2323:An examination of phenomenology, the "philosophy of experience." Taking the perspective that literature helps clarify our experience, we will engage in readings of various genres--poetry, autobiography, fiction, and drama--as we examine how literature not only records experience, but also shapes it through a distinct method of reasoning. 
2324:Digital literature explores how literary works are composed for, shaped by, and studied in electronic environments. Course texts range from books to electronic fiction and poetry to video games. Hands-on activities give students a chance to develop their own literary projects--either as electronic literary works or as digital scholarship. 
2325:This course explores issues and methodologies related to the integration of digital technologies into teaching. Topics include instructor-student dynamics in the technology-assisted classroom, the role of social media in education, emerging forms of digital composing, and opportunities for extending the classroom through online platforms. 
2326:Students will investigate theories and practices of editing in multimedia, digital environments. Students will explore histories of textual editing, research major humanities projects, examine trends and toolsets related to developing scholarly digital materials, and collaborate with one another and with campus entities to develop an online digital humanities project. 
2327:This course offers a rigorous introduction to the various theories (aesthetic, narratological, historiographic, ideological, feminist, poststructuralist) inspired by the cinema. 
2328:Two years of college-level Spanish or the equivalent strongly recommended. Multidisciplinary examination of texts and other media of the Americas, in English and Spanish, from a variety of genres. 
2329:Selected topics in literary studies, composition, digital media, and related fields. Topic varies by semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
2330:Restricted to senior honors candidates. First semester of senior honors thesis. Independent research under the direction of an English department faculty member. 
2331:Restricted to senior honors candidates. Second semester of senior honors thesis. Essay preparation under the direction of an English department faculty member. 
2332:Permission of the program director. Restricted to senior honors candidates. The first half of a two-semester seminar. Each student begins a book of fiction (25,000 words) or poetry (1,000 lines). Extensive discussion of student work in class and in conferences. 207; and ENGL 406 or 407. 
2333:Permission of the program director. Restricted to senior honors candidates. The second half of a two-semester seminar. Each student completes a book of fiction or poetry. Extensive discussion of student work in class and in conferences with instructor. 207; ENGL 406 or 407; and ENGL 693H. 
2334:Guides students through the processes of developing an original research topic, conducting research, and analyzing research, leading students to produce a high-quality presentation of their findings. Topic varies by instructor but may focus on literary studies or closely-related arenas such as medical humanities, digital humanities, and creative writing, among others. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
2335:This course examines the ways in which scientific information, human values, and the policy process interact to produce environmental change, economic growth, and social justice in North Carolina. 
2336:Special topics course. Content will vary each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2337:Students quantify global depletion of energy resources and accompanying environmental degradation, hence discovering the profound changes in attitudes and behavior required to adjust to diminished fossil fuels and modified climate. 
2338:Comparative study of the cultural and biological diversity of peoples of Siberia from prehistoric through contemporary times. Course topics include the biological diversity, culture, behavior, and history of Siberian populations. 
2339:Human-environment interactions are examined through analytical methods from the social sciences, humanities, and sciences. The focus is on the role of social, political, and economic factors in controlling interactions between society and the environment in historical and cultural contexts. Three lecture hours and one recitation hour a week. 
2340:Human--environment interactions are examined through analytical methods from the social sciences, humanities, and sciences. The focus is on the role of social, political, and economic factors in controlling interactions between society and the environment in historical and cultural contexts. Three lecture hours and one recitation hour a week. 
2341:Examines fundamental processes governing the movement and transformation of material and energy in environmental systems. Focuses on the role of these processes in environmental phenomena and how society perturbs these processes. Integrates methods from a range of scientific disciplines. Three lecture hours and three computer laboratory hours a week. 
2342:A quantitative introduction to selected topics in environmental sciences with an emphasis on developing and solidifying problem-solving skills. 
2343:This course will provide an intellectual focus on the interface between environment and society by examining the relationship among science, policy, and actual management practices on a chosen topic. 
2344:By employing a multidisciplinary approach, this class will give students a sense of the role that the environment has played in shaping United States society and the role that our society plays in producing environmental change at the national and global level. 
2345:By employing a multidisciplinary approach, this class will give students a sense of the role that the environment has played in shaping United States society and the role that our society plays in producing environmental change at the national and global level. 
2346:This seminar series will provide a general introduction to energy sources, resources, technologies, and societal use from a sustainability perspective. 
2347:Required preparation, one introductory geology course numbered below GEOL 202, except first-year seminar. Environmental and human problems connected with uses of earth materials and with geological processes. Mineral and water resources, land-use planning, and engineering geology. 
2348:Natural processes and human impacts on estuarine systems using the Neuse River estuary as a case study. Course includes one week of intensive field work based at the Institute of Marine Sciences. A student may not receive credit for this course after receiving credit for ENEC 222. 
2349:Introduction to the estuarine and coastal environment: geomorphology, physical circulation, nutrient loading, primary and secondary production, carbon and nitrogen cycling, benthic processes, and sedimentation. Consideration given to human impact on coastal systems with emphasis on North Carolina estuaries and sounds. Includes a mandatory weekend field trip and laboratory. 
2350:Explores the nexus of agricultural, ecological, and food systems as they dynamically interact. The class examines case studies from North Carolina and other parts of the world. Themes include nutrition, food security, agroecology, and sustainable livelihoods. Students engage in readings, class projects, and hands-on activities in a laboratory setting. 
2351:Course examines human adaptations to environments across Africa. Focuses on livelihood systems such as farming, herding and hunting/ gathering. 
2352:This one credit hour course meets the semester before UNC students go to study abroad at the Institute for the Environment Thailand Field Site. The course will prepare students for the research portion of the program. Student should be applying to the field site when taking this course. 
2353:This one credit hour seminar is only open to students who are planning to participate in the spring research semester in Ecuador. The main purpose of this seminar is to prepare students for this six-month experience in Ecuador by discussing both research methods and Ecuadorian society. 
2354:Includes one-hour laboratory. Atmospheric processes including radiation, dynamics, and thermodynamics are emphasized. Circulations across a range of temporal and spatial scales are described. Links between environmental problems and the atmosphere are explored. 
2355:Covers the politics of environmental issues, with a focus on issues that have become internationalized. It focuses on the special problems that arise in creating rules for environmental management and regulation when no single government has authority to enforce those rules. 
2356:Introduction to the new field of biodiversity studies, which integrates approaches from systematics, ecology, evolution, and conservation. 
2357:The course familiarizes students with the natural history, ecology, and physical and chemical characteristics of the coral reef environment. Policy and management issues are also examined. 
2358:This course explores the biogeography of Siberia and gives students practical training on how to do field work in field ecology and physical geography. 
2359:This course will give students a multidisciplinary introduction to growing field of biodiversity preservation. students lacking the prerequisite. 
2360:A seminar that introduces students to non-Western perspectives and comparative study of ecological, social, and economic factors that influence the welfare of contemporary African communities. Examination of famine, population growth, and health issues within the context of African cultural and social systems. 
2361:Explores ecological theory and its application to the restoration of terrestrial, aquatic, and marine ecosystems. Requires 30 hours of service to a local restoration project in which students will collect ecological data for a final case study project. 
2362:Principles of spatial and temporal data analysis are applied to issues of the role of society in producing environmental change. Methods include statistical analysis, model development, and computer visualization. Three lecture hours and one laboratory hour a week. 
2363:Introduction to the methods for selecting management practices in business and industry in ways that optimize environmental quality and economic prosperity. Three lecture hours a week. 
2364:Examines the regional to global flow of materials and energy through materials extraction, processing, manufacturing, product use, recycling, and ultimate disposition, including its relevance in policy development. Reviews natural cycles in the environment, basic physics, and the technology of energy production. the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
2365:Historical development of the system of beliefs, values, institutions, etc, underlying societal response to the environment in different cultures is analyzed. The approach is interdisciplinary, drawing on methods from history, philosophy, psychology, etc. Three lecture hours a week. 
2366:Introduction to the methods for assigning value to aspects of the environment and to interhuman and human-environment interactions. The approach is interdisciplinary, drawing on methods from philosophy, ecology, psychology, aesthetics, economics, religion, etc. Three lecture hours a week. 
2367:A Web-based course on the methods and roles of risk assessment in the international setting, with a primary focus on United States-European Union applications in environmental policy decisions. 
2368:This introductory course will cover two broad themes: the physical processes of the hydrologic cycle and how human use (and abuse) of freshwater resources can lead to major environmental problems. 
2369:Students will conduct laboratory and field experiments to reinforce the topics covered in ENEC/GEOL 324. PX credit for ENEC/GEOL 324 + 324L. 
2370:This course explores logistical, political, social, and economic challenges in supplying every human with adequate access to clean water, the most basic human right. 
2371:This course explores logistical, political, social, and economic challenges in supplying every human with adequate access to clean water, the most basic human right. 
2372:An overview of science, social science, and humanities perspectives on community sustainability. 
2373:This course gives students an overview of environmental law and some practical experience in environmental policy making. 
2374:The utilization of common coastal resources, the management of fisheries, and coastal zone management guide an examination of coastal laws, policies, and regulations at the federal, state, and local levels. 
2375:Gives students a foundation in population biology and the ecological processes that influence populations of economically important fish and shellfish. Students will gain practical quantitative skills including statistical analyses, model development, and data visualization. Familiarity with introductory statistics concepts is preferred but not necessary. 
2376:The meaning of environmental values and their relation to other values; the ethical status of animals, species, wilderness, and ecosystems; the built environment; environmental justice; ecofeminism; obligations to future generations. 
2377:Introduction to the ecology of agricultural practices and the impact of food production on the environment. Particular attention will be paid to the constraints on agriculture which must be overcome to feed the planet's growing population. 
2378:Introduction to the ecology of agricultural practices and the impact of food production on the environment. Particular attention will be paid to the constraints on agriculture which must be overcome to feed the planet's growing population. 
2379:Explores rhetorical means of citizen influence of practices affecting our natural and human environment; also, study of communication processes and dilemmas of redress of environmental grievances in communities and workplace. 
2380:This course develops a set of core principles that are essential to understand and evaluate environmental policy and renewable resource use. These principles are primarily economic, but our discussion will also include insights from politics and ethics. 
2381:Permission of the instructor. This course provides an internship with an organization on sustainability topics and public engagement. Pass/Fail only. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2382:Permission of the instructor. Research in an area of environmental science or environmental studies. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2383:Permission of the instructor. A specialized selection of readings from the literature of a particular environmental field supervised by a member of the Carolina Environmental Faculty group. Written reports on the readings or a literature review paper will be required. Cannot be used as a course toward the major. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 8 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2384:Required preparation, a background in chemistry and mathematics, including ordinary differential equations. Chemical processes occurring in natural and engineered systems: chemical cycles; transport and transformation processes of chemicals in air, water, and multimedia environments; chemical dynamics; thermodynamics; structure/activity relationships. 
2385:Introduces students to approaches used to preserve the natural and cultural heritage of the Southern Appalachians. 
2386:Principles of analysis of the atmosphere are applied to the analysis of environmental phenomena. The link between the atmosphere and other environmental compartments is explored through environmental case studies. 
2387:Principles of geological and related Earth systems sciences are applied to analyses of environmental phenomena. The link between the lithosphere and other environmental compartments is explored through case studies of environmental issues. Three lecture hours and one laboratory hour a week. PHYS 115 or 119; permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
2388:Principles of analysis of the ocean, coast, and estuarine environments and the processes that control these environments are applied to the analysis of environmental phenomena. Case studies of environmental issues. Three lecture hours and one laboratory hour a week. PHYS 115 or 119; permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
2389:Methods for developing explanatory and predictive models of environmental processes are explored. Includes discussion of the relevant scientific modes of analysis, mathematical methods, computational issues, and visualization techniques. Two lecture hours and one computer laboratory hour a week. 
2390:This course explores atmospheric processes most important to environmental problems such as the transport and transformation of air pollutants and weather systems involved in intercontinental transport of gases and particles. 
2391:Introduction to process geomorphology with emphasis on quantitative interpretation of weathering, hill slope, fluvial, glacial, and eolian processes from topography and landscapes. the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
2392:The impact of building on the environment and health will be examined by looking at the major areas of: land use planning, water resource use, energy, materials and indoor environment. 
2393:Provides an overview of principles from science and engineering to analyze sustainability of material and energy systems. 
2394:Study of wetland ecosystems with particular emphasis on hydrological functioning, the transition from terrestrial to aquatic systems, wetlands as filtration systems, and exchange between wetlands and other environments. 
2395:This course introduces students to the physiological, morphological, and behavioral factors employed by marine organisms to cope with their physical environment. Emphasis will be placed on the response of marine organisms to environmental factors such as seawater temperature, light, water salinity, ocean acidification, etc. 
2396:Permission of the instructor. For junior and senior science majors or graduate students. Biology of marine photosynthetic protists and cyanobacteria. Phytoplankton evolution, biodiversity, structure, function, biogeochemical cycles and genomics. Harmful algal blooms, commercial products, and climate change. Three lecture/practical session hours per week. 
2397:A field-intensive study of the ecology of marine organisms and their interactions with their environment, including commercially important organisms. Laboratory/recitation/field work is included and contributes two credit hours to the course. 
2398:Principles of chemistry, biology, and geology are applied to analysis of the fate and transport of materials in environmental systems, with an emphasis on those materials that form the most significant cycles. Three lecture hours and one laboratory hour a week. 119; permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
2399:Examines how human-environmental adaptations shape the economic, social, and cultural lives of hunter-gatherers, pastoralists and agriculturalists. Approaches include optimal foraging theory, political ecology and subsistence risk. 
2400:Historical ecology is a framework for integrating physical, biological, and social science data with insights from the humanities to understand the reciprocal relationship between human activity and the Earth system. 
2401:Students will develop a comprehensive understanding of the field of ecology, including modern and emerging trends in ecology. They will develop literacy in the fundamental theories and models that capture ecological processes; emphasis will also be placed on the relevance of ecology and ecological research for human society. 
2402:Explores the ecological concepts underlying ecosystem management (e.g., genetic and species diversity, stability, resilience, landscape ecology, etc.), the tools used in the approach, and case studies of how communities are implementing ecosystem management. 
2403:Required preparation, a multivariate calculus course like MATH 233. Overview of geographical information systems (GIS) using the Arc GIS software, and introduction to advanced geostatistical functions for temporal GIS describing environmental and health phenomena distributed across space and time. Application to the spatiotemporal mapping of environmental water quality. 
2404:Required preparation, one course in probability and statistics. Use of mathematical models and computer simulation tools to estimate the human health impacts of exposure to environmental pollutants. Three lecture hours per week. 
2405:This course explores the environmental history of the Albemarle estuary and its larger watershed and explores ways in which humans can utilize this region in a more sustainable manner. 
2406:This course examines the political and economic dimensions of the food we eat, how it is produced, who eats what, and related social and environmental issues, both domestic and international, affecting the production, pricing, trade, distribution, and consumption of food. 
2407:This course utilizes GIS, GPS, and remote sensing technologies to gather data on geology, watersheds, soils, integrated moisture indices. The class also develops habitat maps and derives species diversity indices. 
2408:Introduces factors shaping environmental decision making by individuals, businesses, governments, advocacy groups, and international institutions. Explores public policy incentives and action strategies for influencing them. 
2409:Explores coastal and offshore energy issues, including energy demand, present-day and innovative sources of energy to meet that demand, economics, policy, and environmental and human health outcomes of different energy sources. Summer session only; online and field trip hybrid course, with a mandatory 8-day field site component on the Outer Banks. Housing and field activities arranged by the instructor, which will carry a fee. 
2410:This course develops and applies core principles essential to understanding and evaluating coastal environmental policy and renewable resource use. The principles include the economics of pollution, public choice, information and cost-benefit analysis, property rights, incentive-based regulation, and the economics of renewable resources. Includes insights from politics and ethics. 
2411:Principles of analysis of the structure and function of ecosystems are applied to environmental phenomena. The link between the biosphere and other environmental compartments is explored through case studies of environmental issues. Three lecture hours and one laboratory hour a week. PHYS 115 or 119; permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
2412:Advanced topics from diverse areas of environmental science and/or environmental studies are explored. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2413:Advanced topics from diverse areas of environmental science and/or environmental studies are explored. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2414:Combines theory and application to explore effective communication in various environmental contexts and professions. Offers students from diverse disciplines tools to effectively and credibly communicate about environmental topics using a spectrum of strategies, and offers methods for effective thinking, writing, and speaking. 
2415:Discusses social science research methods and their application to public policies and the management of natural resources. Students learn quantitative and qualitative methods for measuring social, economic, and demographic variables; how to evaluate, interpret, and use the data; and how values, beliefs, and attitudes affect decisions about ecosystem management. 
2416:Permission of the instructor. This course provides an internship with an organization related to environmental sciences or studies. Pass/Fail only. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2417:Provides a real-world and relevant case study in which to apply material from multiple disciplines including public policy, economics, environmental science, and international studies. Teaches techniques for building policy models not covered elsewhere. 
2418:Introduction to the theory, methods, and applications of stable isotopes to environmental problems. Primary focus will be on the origin, natural abundance, and fractionation of carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen isotopes. 
2419:Reviews environmental problems in developing countries. Analyzes proposed solutions, such as legal remedies, market instruments, corporate voluntary approaches, international agreements, and development policies. Discusses the link between trade and environment, environmental cases from the World Trade Organization, and sustainable development. 
2420:The course will provide students with a multidisciplinary perspective of environmental changes to encompass both human health and ecological health. 
2421:Recommended preparation, MATH 383. Develops explanatory and predictive models of the earth's climate. The level is introductory and the emphasis is on modeling past climate with the hope of understanding its future. 
2422:This course explores the reciprocal connections between energy (production/conversion, distribution, and use), land use, environment, and transportation. Evaluation of federal, state, and local policies on energy conservation and alternative energy sources are emphasized. Students gain skills to analyze impacts, interdependencies, and uncertainties of various energy conservation measures and production technologies. 
2423:Introduction to the application of quantitative and statistical methods in environmental science, including environmental monitoring, assessment, threshold exceedance, risk assessment, and environmental decision making. 
2424:Application of modern statistical analysis and data modeling in ecological and evolutionary research. Emphasis is on computer-intensive methods and model-based approaches. Familiarity with standard parametic statistics is assumed. instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
2425:An interdisciplinary course for students interested in environmental issues or journalism to produce stories about environmental issues that matter to North Carolinians. Students learn to identify credible sources, manage substantial amounts of information, and find story focus as they report on technical and often controversial subjects in a variety of media. 
2426:This course provides an overview of natural and social science approaches to addressing biodiversity conservation and resource management. Concepts and methods from population biology, evolutionary ecology, community ecology, and conservation biology will be complemented with approaches from common property theory, indigenous resource management, and human evolutionary ecology. 
2427:Required preparation, previous course work in ecology. Permission of the instructor. Topics vary but focus on interdisciplinary problems facing humans and/or the environment. May be repeated for credit. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2428:Examines the interplay of science and economics in the design of environmental markets. The first part introduces the principles of environmental economics. The second part considers several case studies that illustrate the critical role that scientific models of natural systems play in the design of environmental markets. 
2429:Water resources demand-supply relationships, United States water resource and related water quality policy, legal structure for water allocation, planning, project and program evaluation, and pricing. Strategies for coping with floods, droughts, and climate change will be explored. Extensive use of case studies. 
2430:Intensive introduction to environmental management and policy, including environmental and health risks; policy institutions, processes, and instruments; policy analysis; and major elements of American environmental policy. Lectures and case studies. Three lecture hours per week. 
2431:Introduction to the management of water quality at the local and basinwide scales. Topics include theory and management frameworks; state and federal statutes and programs; water contaminants, their fate and transport; alternatives for improving and protecting water quality; and the technologies and management practices of selected basinwide comprehensive strategies. 
2432:The goal of this course is to help students who intend to become professional ecologists or biologists acquire critical skills and strategies needed for achieving their career goals. 
2433:Required preparation, introductory geology course numbered below GEOL 202, except first-year seminar, or permission of the instructor. Applications of continuum mechanics in the earth sciences, including stress, strain, elasticity, and viscous flow. Numerical solutions to problems in heterogeneous finite strain including finite element analysis. 
2434:Integration of the structure, function, and change of ecosystems with a land use planning framework. How land use planning accommodates human use and occupancy within ecological limits to sustain long-term natural system integrity. 
2435:May be repeated for credit. students lacking the prerequisite. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 12 total completions. 
2436:Examines communication practices that accompany citizen participation in environmental decisions, including public education campaigns of nonprofit organizations, "risk communication," media representations, and mediation in environmental disputes. 
2437:Theory and methods of environmental economics. Topics covered include cost-benefit analysis and environmental policy analysis, economic concept of sustainability, optimal use of natural resources, nonmarket valuation, and economic instruments. 
2438:Design of public policy instruments as incentives for sustainable management of environmental resources and ecosystems, and comparison of the effects and effectiveness of alternative policies. 
2439:Permission of the director of undergraduate studies. First of two course sequence leading to the honors designation. 
2440:Permission of the director of undergraduate studies. Independent project leading to the honors designation. Includes weekly research seminar. 
2441:Interdisciplinary, team-based analyses of environmental phenomena are performed and applied to problems of the selection of effective environmental strategies. Students may select from a wide range of examples and venues. 
2442:Permission of the instructor. Current topics of interest in environmental science and their application to understanding environmental issues are directed towards undergraduates. Topics and instructors will change. One to three lecture hours per week. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2443:Introduction to mass, energy, and momentum transport applied to environmental problem solving. Students ask and answer policy-oriented questions (define systems, document assumptions, explain the value and limitations of quantitative answers). They will apply these tools to the design of engineered solutions and characterization of natural and perturbed systems. 
2444:Examines key events that have shaped our understanding of the impacts of environmental agents on human health and uses them to introduce basic concepts in environmental health. 
2445:Directed readings or laboratory study. Written reports are required. May be taken more than once for credit. Six to nine hours per week. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2446:Advanced Undergraduate and Graduate-level ENVR 400. Seminar Series. 1 Credit. Presents the results of ongoing research projects in the Department of Environmental Sciences and Engineering. Topics and presenters are selected from among the departmental graduate students and faculty. 
2447:Required preparation, a background in chemistry and mathematics, including ordinary differential equations. Chemical processes occurring in natural and engineered systems: chemical cycles; transport and transformation processes of chemicals in air, water, and multimedia environments; chemical dynamics; thermodynamics; structure/activity relationships. 
2448:A systems approach to dealing with environmental pollution problems is highlighted and Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is introduced as an assessment tool. Topics include basic environmental interactions; biogeochemical cycles and environmental impacts (global, regional, and local); and application of LCA to waste management and energy conversion systems; are addressed. 
2449:Students learn laboratory, field, and analytical skills. Provides a solid introduction to experimental research in environmental sciences and engineering. Students are provided with applications in limnology, aquatic chemistry, and industrial hygiene. 
2450:Required preparation, one course in general microbiology. A description of microbial populations and communities, the environmental processes they influence, and how they can be controlled to the benefit of humankind. 
2451:Required preparation, introductory biology, chemistry, and physics. Basic aspects of freshwater ecosystem function. Emphasis on trophic- level interactions and integration of physical, chemical, and biological principles for a holistic view of lake ecosystem dynamics. 
2452:Required preparation, major in a natural science or two courses in natural sciences. Studies origin of ocean basins, seawater chemistry and dynamics, biological communities, sedimentary record, and oceanographic history. Term paper. Students lacking science background should see MASC 101. Students may not receive credit for both MASC 101 and MASC 401. 
2453:Principles and applications of chemical equilibria to natural waters. Acid- base, solubility, complex formation, and redox reactions are discussed. This course uses a problem-solving approach to illustrate chemical speciation and environmental implications. Three lecture hours per week. 
2454:Required preparation, introductory course in microbiology or permission of the instructor. Presentation of the microbes of public health importance in water, food, and air, including their detection, occurrence, transport, and survival in the environment; epidemiology and risks from environmental exposure. Two lecture and two laboratory hours per week. 
2455:Toxicological assessment of and a case presentation of related exposure is given. A conceptual approach is utilized to design appropriate programs to prevent worker ill health due to toxicant exposure 
2456:This course concentrates on fundamentals of radiation and protection, including types of radiation, radioactive decay, interaction with matter, biological effects, detection and measurement, protection methods/ techniques, external and internal dose, etc. Lectures include hazards in categories of environmental radiation, nuclear energy, medical applications, industrial uses, etc. 
2457:Required preparation, basic biology, chemistry through organic, calculus. Permission of the instructor for students lacking this preparation. Interactions of environmental agents (chemicals, infectious organisms, radiation) with biological systems including humans, with attention to routes of entry, distribution, metabolism, elimination, and mechanisms of adverse effects. Three lecture hours per week. 
2458:Required preparation, basic biology, chemistry through organic, math through calculus; permission of the instructor for students lacking this preparation. A practical introduction to the measurement of biological end-points, emphasizing adverse effects of environmental agents, using laboratory and field techniques. Two laboratory hours per week. 
2459:Fundamentals of occupational safety and ergonomics with emphasis on legislation and organization of industrial safety and ergonomic programs, including hazard recognition, analysis, control, and motivational factors pertaining to industrial accident and cumulative trauma disorder prevention. 
2460:An introduction to the health hazards associated with the various unit operations of industry. Field trips to local industries planned. 
2461:Required preparation, one course in biochemistry. Biochemical actions of toxicants and assessment of cellular damage by biochemical measurements. Three lecture hours per week. students lacking the prerequisites. 
2462:Focuses on chemical reaction rates and reaction mechanisms. Covers mole balances, rate laws, chemical kinetics, and reactor design. Principles are applied to any environmental system where chemical transformations must be described. Three lecture hours per week. 
2463:The physical properties of fluids, kinematics, governing equations, viscous incompressible flow, vorticity dynamics, boundary layers, irrotational incompressible flow. students lacking the prerequisite. 
2464:Required preparation, math through differential equations and some familiarity with fluid mechanics. Conservation principles for mass, momentum, and energy developed and applied to groundwater systems. Scope includes the movement of water, gas, and organic liquid phases, the transport and reaction of contaminants. Three lecture hours per week. 
2465:Required preparation, a multivariate calculus course like MATH 233. Overview of geographical information systems (GIS) using the Arc GIS software, and introduction to advanced geostatistical functions for temporal GIS describing environmental and health phenomena distributed across space and time. Application to the spatiotemporal mapping of environmental water quality. 
2466:Required preparation, one course in probability and statistics. Use of mathematical models and computer simulation tools to estimate the human health impacts of exposure to environmental pollutants. Three lecture hours per week. 
2467:Recommended preparation, microbiology, epidemiology, and infectious diseases. Survey of alternative approaches, frameworks, and decision- making tools for quantitative risk assessment of microbial pathogens that infect humans and cause disease by the exposure routes of water, food, air, and other vehicles. 
2468:This class addresses the complexity and importance of global climate change from several disciplines. A top expert will lecture each week, addressing several themes including the science of human influences on climate, impacts and adaptation, global energy and technology, communication, and economics and international solutions. Pass/Fail only. 
2469:Mathematical modeling of dynamic systems, linear and nonlinear. The fundamental budget equation. Case studies in modeling transport, biogeochemical processes, population dynamics. Analytical and numerical techniques; chaos theory; fractal geometry. students lacking the prerequisite. 
2470:Graduate students only; undergraduates must have permission of the instructor. Overview of chemical processes in the ocean. Topics include physical chemistry of seawater, major element cycles, hydrothermal vents, geochemical tracers, air-sea gas exchange, particle transport, sedimentary processes, and marine organic geochemistry. Three lecture and two recitation hours per week. 
2471:This course is intended to develop a student's ability to operate the primary instruments for measuring these important pollutants, collect and process samples where necessary, record data, and process instrument data into final air concentration data. 
2472:For graduate students; undergraduates need permission of the instructor. Marine ecosystem processes pertaining to the structure, function, and ecological interactions of biological communities; management of biological resources; taxonomy and natural history of pelagic and benthic marine organisms. Three lecture and one recitation hours per week. Two mandatory weekend fieldtrips. 
2473:The course will provide students with a multidisciplinary perspective of environmental changes to encompass both human health and ecological health. 
2474:Recommended preparation, CHEM 261 or MASC 505, and one additional ENVR, GEOL, or MASC course above 400. Sources, transformations, and fate of natural organic matter in marine environments. Emphasis on interplay of chemical, biological, and physical processes that affect organic matter composition, distribution, and turnover. 
2475:Required preparation, one course in probability and statistics. Use of quantitative tools for balancing conflicting priorities (such as costs versus human health protection) and evaluating uncertainties when making environmental decisions. 
2476:This class addresses the importance of climate change in its entirety. The first half of the course addresses climate science, followed by climate change impacts, energy and mitigation technologies, economics, and international politics. Improving communication and quantitative skills is emphasized through homework, in-class presentations, and a research paper. 
2477:Over a million children die yearly from diarrhea, in part because 1.5 billion humans do not have access to a basic toilet. This course will enable students to understand public health and environmental consequences of inadequate sanitation, basic sanitation technologies, and a number of approaches to its social promotion. 
2478:Intensive introduction to environmental management and policy, including environmental and health risks; policy institutions, processes, and instruments; policy analysis; and major elements of American environmental policy. Lectures and case studies. Three lecture hours per week. 
2479:A practical experience in a setting relevant to environmental health. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2480:This course examines the relationship between environmental quality, human health and welfare, with particular attention to contamination in human environment; physical, biological, and social factors; trade-offs regarding prevention and remediation measures. Satisfies core School of Public Health requirement. Three lecture hours per week. 
2481:An introduction to relevant epidemiologic concepts that inform environmental science research. Learning objectives include discussing basic epidemiologic concepts and measures of disease occurrence in populations, explaining epidemiological study designs for studying associations between risk factors or exposures in populations, evaluating epidemiologic evidence, and comprehending basic ethical principles. 
2482:Students will learn about how social, economic, and political factors impact environmental health outcomes and will be introduced to theories and methods for incorporating social determinants frameworks into environmental health research, as well as the role of environmental justice movements. 
2483:Required preparation, one year of biology. Environmental systems biology examines how environmental stressors influence the components of a biological system, and how the interactions between these components result in changes in the function and behavior of that system. 
2484:Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. The course material introduces the general concepts of assessing environmental exposures to chemicals in human populations. This includes the design of ecologic and personal monitoring studies, the techniques and equipment used for sampling and analysis, and interpretation of data. 
2485:Required preparation, organic chemistry. Bioactivation of carcinogens, interaction of activated metabolites with DNA, and their effects on DNA structure, replication, repair, and the control of these processes during development of chemically induced carcinogenesis. Two lecture hours per week. 
2486:Requires some programming experience and basic numerical analysis. Error in computation, solutions of nonlinear equations, interpolation, approximation of functions, Fourier methods, numerical integration and differentiation, introduction to numerical solution of ODEs, Gaussian elimination. 
2487:Theory and practical issues arising in linear algebra problems derived from physical applications, e.g., discretization of ODEs and PDEs. Linear systems, linear least squares, eigenvalue problems, singular value decomposition. 
2488:Numerical methods for solving problems arising in sciences and engineering. Solution of linear equations using direct and iterative approaches, solution of nonlinear systems of algebraic equations, solution of ordinary differential equations including single and multistep methods, and methods for stiff systems of ODEs and collocation methods for linear and nonlinear PDEs. 
2489:Requires an undergraduate course in differential equations. Contour integration, asymptotic expansions, steepest descent/stationary phase methods, special functions arising in physical applications, elliptic and theta functions, elementary bifurcation theory. 
2490:Perturbation methods for ODEs and PDEs, WKBJ method, averaging and modulation theory for linear and nonlinear wave equations, long- time asymptotics of Fourier integral representations of PDEs, Green's functions, dynamical systems tools. 
2491:A first graduate-level course in physical principles relevant to environmental systems. Topics include dimensional analysis, tensor calculus, conservation of mass and momentum. Applications are considered from natural and engineered systems and across all relevant media. Focus is on the development of mechanistic representation of environmental systems. 
2492:Second part of a graduate-level sequence in physical principles relevant to environmental systems. Topics include turbulence, conservation of energy, multiscale methods, and thermodynamics. Applications are considered from natural and engineered systems and across all relevant media. Focus is on development of mechanistic representation of environmental systems. 
2493:Permission of the instructor for undergraduates. This course teaches practical basics of how to solve environmental engineering problems in the hydraulics of pipes, pumps, networks, and open channels. The course is a mix of classroom lectures, problem-solving sessions, and laboratory sessions. 
2494:This class is designed for graduate students planning for research in air pollution, emphasizing chemical kinetics and engineering approaches to problem solving in addition to atmospheric structure, meteorology, and modeling. We address problems of stratospheric and tropospheric ozone, particulate matter, and acid rain. We emphasize quantitative problem solving in homework. 
2495:Builds on an understanding of infectious and toxic hazards, disease causation, and environmental transmission. Deals with hazard and disease classification; safety, risk, and vulnerability; interventions and their health impact; approaches in different settings; distal factors (e.g., water scarcity, climate change); and approaches to studying unsafe water, sanitation, and hygiene. 
2496:Permission of the instructor for undergraduates and nonmajors. Introduces students to methods for research conception, design, planning, and implementation in fields related to water and its impacts on health. Students study approaches and tools that may be applied in water-related research and are coached in developing their own research design. 
2497:Permission of the instructor for undergraduates and nonmajors. Familiarizes students with the principles of scientific communication with an emphasis on scientific writing and oral presentations. Using their own water and health research, students learn how to communicate effectively in informal settings and how to prepare for interviews with the media. 
2498:Permission of the instructor. Seminar on policy and planning approaches for providing improved community water and sanitation services in developed countries. Topics include the choice of appropriate technology and level of service, pricing, metering, and connection charges; cost recovery and targeting subsidies to the poor; water venting; community participation in the management and operation of water systems; and rent-seeking behavior in the provision of water supplies. 
2499:Design of public policy instruments as incentives for sustainable management of environmental resources and ecosystems, and comparison of the effects and effectiveness of alternative policies. 
2500:This course familiarizes students with scientific paper writing and coaches students towards journal manuscript submission. Students should have a data set of results. Sessions begin with student presentations and discussion, followed by a brief preparatory lecture on the next assignment. Substantive preparation is required between sessions. 
2501:Permission of the instructor. Directed readings or laboratory study of a selected topic. A written report is required in the form of an honors thesis (ENVR 692H). 
2502:Students complete honors research projects. 
2503:Directed readings or laboratory study. Written reports are required. May be taken more than once for credit. Three to nine hours per week. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2504:A critical overview of 20th-century European history, with particular attention to the constant ethnic, religious, social, economic, and cultural struggles (including Holocaust, Cold War) in various subunits of the old continent. 
2505:A detailed examination of selected topics in the field of Contemporary European Studies. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2506:A treatment of the political institutions and processes of western European democracies, with special attention to France, Germany, England, and Italy. 
2507:A treatment of the political institutions and processes of western European democracies, with special attention to France, Germany, England, and Italy. 
2508:This course examines and compares the situation of women in politics, the work force, society and family from the French Revolution to the new women's movement in the 1970s with a focus on Britain, France and Germany. One major theme is the history of the struggle for women's emancipation. 
2509:Focuses on the construction of cultural identities in French films within a European context from the 1980s until today. 
2510:The course focus on theories on fascism, national cultures of fascism (e.g. Nazi Germany, Fascist Italy, Hungary) as well as selected topics which are essential to understand the attraction and functioning of fascist movements and regimes since 1918 in Europe (e.g. racism, war, culture, charismatic leadership). 
2511:Theories of international political economy, major trends in international economic relations, selected contemporary policy issues. 
2512:An introduction to international trade, the balance of payments, and related issues of foreign economic policy. 
2513:A detailed examination of advanced special topics in Contemporary European Studies. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2514:This course will examine the American ethos by looking at those who have been discriminated against in sport because of race, gender, sexual orientation, or disability. 
2515:This course will provide students an introduction to the practical entrepreneurial business tools for starting a new business (or for use in an existing organization) in the human performance and/or sport industry. 
2516:Course content will vary each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2517:Elective, open to all students. This course examines basic wellness concepts in the areas of physical fitness, nutrition, disease prevention, mental health, drug abuse, and human sexuality. Emphasis is on the individual's responsibility for his/her own health. 
2518:The study of the structure of the human body with special emphasis on the musculoskeletal, articular, and nervous systems. Prosected cadaver materials are utilized to study the skeletal muscles and body viscera. 
2519:An examination of the role of physical activity/inactivity on the health and well-being of American society. 
2520:This course exposes students to psychological aspects contributing to sport/physical activity participation and psychological outcomes of participation. It explores psychological theories and research and their application to the affective, behavioral, and cognitive outcomes of sport/physical activity participants when considering key environmental factors. 
2521:An intensive study of modern dance technique and philosophy, focusing on the physical principles of movement and their choreographic application. One hour seminar and four and one-half hours laboratory. 
2522:A professional preparation course in the skills, knowledge, safety, and teaching progressions of basketball, track and field, and softball/ baseball. 
2523:A professional preparation course in the skills, knowledge, safety, and teaching progressions of soccer, tennis, and volleyball. 
2524:A professional preparation course for teaching and coaching. Includes basic instruction in coaching education and principles, pedagogy for coaching, conditioning for athletes, and team building. 
2525:This course deals with methods and materials of health and physical education in school levels kindergarten through sixth grade. Required of elementary education majors. Does not count toward physical education major. 
2526:A study of problems related to body mechanics and the needs of the physically handicapped student. 
2527:Students develop a working knowledge of theories, principles, and operating procedures involved in managing programs, staff, and facilities in the health/fitness industry, including management, marketing, operations, legal aspects. 
2528:In this course, students are introduced to the policies and problems of organizing and administering sport, recreation and physical education programs in public and private settings. A grade of B or better is required for EXSS-SA students. 
2529:Because sport cuts across all international boundaries, students must understand the global implications of the sport industry. This course introduces students to the organization, governance, business activities, and intercultural issues in international sport. 
2530:This course will analyze and produce skills essential to the revenue production and sales process commonly found in the sport business. In this class students will develop an understanding and appreciation for the sales and revenue-production process related to a sport franchise and/or organization. 
2531:A broad based perspective of women's participation in sport including history of participation, physiological differences, and socio-cultural influences including work, politics, family, economics, and gender roles and identity. 
2532:Permission of the instructor. This course is designed to introduce the undergraduate athletic training student to the athletic training profession and to provide the basic knowledge and skills necessary to recognize, evaluate, and treat injuries to the head and face, cervical spine, thoracic region, abdominal/urogenital region, and extremities. 
2533:An introduction to research in the fields of physical education, exercise, and sport science with emphasis on understanding and application of research findings. 
2534:Required preparation, a grade of B or better in EXSS 175. EXSS 275L is a basic human anatomy laboratory course designed to accompany EXSS 175. For students endeavoring to major in the allied health professions. 
2535:Instructor may approve equivalents for prerequisite. A lecture course in elementary physiology, covering the various systems of the body. 
2536:Recommended preparation, EXSS 175. Theory and practice of basic first aid, cardiopulmonary resuscitation, and the acute care of athletic injuries. 
2537:EXSS 291. Theory and Practice of Modern Dance Technique - Intermediate-Level Elective. 3 Credits. An intensive study of modern dance technique and philosophy, focusing on the physical principles of movement and their choreographic application. One hour seminar and four and one-half hours laboratory. students lacking the prerequisite. 
2538:A grade of B or better in EXSS 221 is required. This course is designed to introduce students to marketing within the sports industry, including the unique aspects of the sport product and sport consumer markets. 
2539:This course is designed to develop practical competencies necessary for effectively managing sport facilities and events while providing students with experiential learning opportunities inside and outside the classroom. 
2540:Advanced course focusing on understanding instrumentation used in assessing internal injury related to sport. Pharmacology, drug testing, psychosocial interventions, and selected emergency procedures pertaining to athletic injury are also presented. 
2541:Instructor may approve equivalents for EXSS prerequisites. Students must take laboratory section along with class. The application of physiological principles to sport and physical activity. Both immediate and chronic adaptations to exercise are studied. Two lecture and two laboratory hours a week. 
2542:Instructor may approve equivalents for prerequisite. Provides introduction to neuromuscular factors controlling movement and acquisition of motor skills. Promotes application of neuromuscular control and motor learning principles to teaching of motor skills with application to rehabilitation and fields such as athletic training, physical therapy, and coaching. 
2543:Instructor may approve equivalents for EXSS prerequisites. The study and analysis of human movement including fundamental aspects of the musculoskeletal and articular systems. Principles of biomechanics, including application to neuromuscular fitness activities, aerodynamics in sport, hydrodynamics, rotary motion, throw-like and push-like patterns, and analysis of projectiles. 
2544:This field experience offers implementation of theories and practices of athletic training and sports medicine under the supervision of a certified athletic trainer. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 5 total credits. 5 total completions. 
2545:Permission of the instructor. Majors only. Overall 3.0 grade point average required. Laboratory/research study addressing exercise and sport science questions. Requires final written report. Repeatable for six total credits. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2546:Recommended preparation, EXSS 221. This course provides an understanding of the financial and economic growth of sport, economic theory applied to the sport industry, and the basic principles and methods of sound fiscal control. 
2547:Recommended preparation, EXSS 221. This course provides a foundation in general legal concepts and familiarizes students with the legal areas they are most likely to encounter as managers in the sports and fitness industry. 
2548:This course will provide students an introduction to practical entrepreneurial business tools for starting a new business (or for use in an existing organization) in the sport industry. 
2549:This course provides students with knowledge and experience in designing corrective exercise programs. Students will learn to assess posture, movement quality, range of motion, and strength. Students will also learn to correct abnormalities exercises for various body parts. Knowledge will be gained via lecture and laboratory activities. 
2550:The role of nutrition in maximizing physical performance, promoting health, and controlling body weight. Includes individual nutritional assessments. 
2551:This is an advanced athletic training course, designed to provide the athletic training student with knowledge and skills necessary to recognize and evaluate athletic injuries of the spine and extremities. 
2552:This is an advanced athletic training course, designed to provide the athletic training student with knowledge and skills necessary for treating injuries. 
2553:This is an advanced athletic training course, designed to provide the athletic training student with knowledge and skills necessary for rehabilitating injuries. 
2554:A presentation of the historical and current perspectives on athletic training, including techniques for organizing and administering athletic training programs. 
2555:Required preparation, any two EXSS courses with grades of B or better. Permission of the instructor. Individually designed in-depth study in an area of interest within exercise and sport science. Available to both majors and nonmajors under the supervision of selected EXSS faculty members. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2556:Instructor may approve equivalents for prerequisites. This is an intermediate- to upper-level course designed to provide students with theoretical and practical knowledge of the physiological, biomechanical, functional, and administrative aspects of designing and supervising conditioning programs for various populations. 
2557:Students must take laboratory section along with class. This is an upper division undergraduate course designed to provide the theoretical and practical knowledge in basic exercise testing and prescription for both healthy and select special populations. 
2558:This course provides an in-depth exploration of joint mechanics. It exposes students to motions of the cervical, thoracic, and lumbar spine as well as the extremities, and relates these concepts to movement of the body during specific activities. 
2559:An upper-level course designed to provide students who have a fitness background with the theoretical and practical knowledge related to the Performance Enhancement Specialization for athletes of all ages. 
2560:An upper-level course designed to provide students who have a health profession background with the theoretical and practical knowledge related to the Performance Enhancement Specialization for athletes. 
2561:A grade of B or better in EXSS 221 is required. Permission of the instructor required for students lacking the prerequisites. This field experience offers implementation of theory and the practical application of sport administration in a sport organization worksite, under the direct supervision of a business professional. 322, 323, 324, 326. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2562:Advanced course examining the responses of the endocrine system to exercise and the adaptations that occur with exercise training. Provides the fundamentals necessary for exercise science and allied health science students to understand the integral role that the endocrine system plays in exercise. 
2563:This course explores interactions between the nervous and musculoskeletal systems via integration of concepts from neuroanatomy, neurophysiology, anatomy, neuromuscular control, and biomechanics. Topics include muscle mechanics, sensorimotor function, joint stability, movement disorders, neurocognition, and neuroplasticity following injury and disease. Course meetings involve both lecture and laboratory content. 
2564:Recommended preparation, EXSS 360 - site dependent. Current CPR certification and student liability insurance is required. Introductory practical experience to enable student to apply knowledge and skills in a worksite under direct supervision of certified professionals. 
2565:Required preparation, a cumulative grade point average meeting the University standard and permission of the department. Directed independent research under the supervision of a faculty advisor who teaches in the exercise and sport science curriculum. 
2566:Required preparation, a cumulative grade point average meeting the University standard and permission of the department. Preparation of an honors thesis and an oral examination on the thesis. 
2567:The seminar is designed to enable first-year students to work closely with senior professors in classes that enroll 20 students or fewer. See the directory of classes for specific offerings. 
2568:Implications of the relationship between women and leisure from a lifestyle perspective and an analysis of the changing role of women and changing leisure concepts from a feminist perspective. 
2569:An introduction to leisure studies and its various elements developed from historical, philosophical, and theoretical perspectives with a focus on the meanings of leisure in individual and community life. 
2570:An analysis of the issues that affect recreation programming for persons across the lifespan. Constraints associated with age, economics, and disabling conditions will be explored. 
2571:Current issues, techniques, and research of a topical short-term nature are the focus of these seminars. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2572:Individual readings, research, and/or field study of a recreation issue, problem, service system, or activity pattern. The course may take the form of an independent study or seminar depending upon students' interests and enrollment. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2573:This experiential course covers the concepts and skills used in program planning. Students apply their program planning skills to real-life situations and implement a recreation program for a community agency. 
2574:An analysis of the techniques, methods, and motives of group and community leaders. Special attention is focused upon the roles of organizational structure, personnel policies, and in-service training programs. 
2575:A survey course taught from a psychosocial perspective addressing the roles of public and private agencies in meeting increased demand for outdoor recreation. Emphasizes the implications of environmental awareness on outdoor recreation. 
2576:An analysis of aspects that affect recreation and leisure behavior from birth to death, with a focus on issues associated with race, class, gender, sexual identity, and disabling conditions. 
2577:An examination of disability from a cultural perspective with the application of theoretical and scientific knowledge to provide recreation interventions that facilitate participation in life by individuals with disabilities. 
2578:Development of helping skills for the practice of therapeutic recreation emphasizing rationale, techniques, and role responsibilities of therapeutic recreation in the area of leisure education. A 20-hour practicum is required. 
2579:Instruction in the relationship between various disabling conditions and the practice of therapeutic recreation. A 24-hour practicum is required. 
2580:Special studies for undergraduates. Intensive study on a particular topic under the supervision of a qualified member of the staff. For RECR majors, with special permission of the faculty members involved and the director of undergraduate studies. 
2581:Honors project in recreation. The completion of a special project, approved by the department, by a student who has been designated a candidate for undergraduate honors. The second of a two-course honors sequence. 
2582:Assignments to this class are made for students with special needs in physical activities focusing primarily on acute and chronic physical limitations. Activities are assigned commensurate with interests and abilities. Students can enroll in only one LFIT course during their career at Carolina. 
2583:This course is an introduction to fitness and wellness, and includes developing personal fitness programs and instruction in physical activity. The activity portion of the course includes various forms of aerobics. Students can enroll in only one LFIT course during their career at Carolina. 
2584:This course is an introduction to fitness and wellness, and includes developing personal fitness programs and instruction in physical activity. Activities will promote cardiovascular endurance, muscular strength and endurance, and flexibility. Students can enroll in only one LFIT course during their career at Carolina. 
2585:This course is an introduction to fitness and wellness, and includes developing personal fitness programs and instruction in physical activity. Activity portion of the course includes basketball, volleyball, and indoor soccer. Students can enroll in only one LFIT course during their career at Carolina. 
2586:This course is an introduction fitness and wellness, and includes developing personal fitness programs and instruction in physical activity. The activity portion of the course promotes cardiovascular fitness through jogging. Students can enroll in only one LFIT course during their career at Carolina. 
2587:This course is an introduction to fitness and wellness, and includes developing personal fitness programs and instruction in physical activity. Activity portion for students who can complete 30 minutes of jogging. Students can enroll in only one LFIT course during their career at Carolina. 
2588:This course is an introduction to fitness and wellness, and includes developing personal fitness programs and instruction in physical activity. Activity portion of course includes ultimate frisbee, flag football, and soccer. Students can enroll in only one LFIT course during their career at Carolina. 
2589:This course is an introduction to fitness and wellness, and includes developing personal fitness programs and instruction in physical activity. The activity portion of the course includes badminton, tennis, and racquetball. Students can enroll in only one LFIT course during their career at Carolina. 
2590:This course is an introduction to fitness and wellness, and includes developing personal fitness programs and instruction in physical activity. The activity portion of the course includes swimming skills for beginners. Students can enroll in only one LFIT course during their career at Carolina. 
2591:This course is an introduction to fitness and wellness, and includes developing personal fitness programs and instruction in physical activity. The activity portion of the course promotes cardiovascular fitness through swimming. Students can enroll in only one LFIT course during their career at Carolina. 
2592:This course is an introduction to fitness and wellness, and includes developing personal fitness programs and instruction in physical activity. The activity portion of the course promotes cardiovascular fitness through walking. Students can enroll in only one LFIT course during their career at Carolina. 
2593:This course is an introduction to fitness and wellness, and includes developing personal fitness programs and instruction in physical activity. The activity portion includes basic techniques of weight training. Students can enroll in only one LFIT course during their career at Carolina. 
2594:This course is an introduction to fitness and wellness, and includes developing personal fitness programs and instruction in physical activity. The activity portion includes basic instruction in both yoga and pilates. Students can enroll in only one LFIT course during their career at Carolina. 
2595:This course is an introduction to fitness and wellness, and includes developing personal fitness programs and instruction in physical activity. The activity portion includes basic instruction in cycle fitness. Students can enroll in only one LFIT course during their career at Carolina. 
2596:An introduction to fitness and wellness that includes developing personal fitness programs and instruction in physical activity. The activity portion includes basic conditioning and instruction in both downhill skiing and snowboarding, including five days in Boone, NC. Students can enroll in only one LFIT course during their career at Carolina. 
2597:This course is an introduction to fitness and wellness, and includes developing personal fitness programs and instruction in physical activity. The activity portion will provide soccer instruction and game play. Students can enroll in only one LFIT course during their career at Carolina. 
2598:This course is an introduction to fitness and wellness, and includes developing personal fitness programs and instruction in physical activity. The activity portion of the course includes basic instruction in tennis. Students can enroll in only one LFIT course during their career at Carolina. 
2599:This course is an introduction to fitness and wellness, and includes developing personal fitness programs and instruction in physical activity. The activity portion of the course includes basic instruction in ultimate frisbee. Students can enroll in only one LFIT course during their career at Carolina. 
2600:This course is an introduction to fitness and wellness, and includes developing personal fitness programs and instruction in physical activity. The activity portion of the course includes basic instruction in Brazilian jiu jitsu. Students can enroll in only one LFIT course during their career at Carolina. 
2601:This course is an introduction to fitness and wellness, and includes developing personal fitness programs and instruction in physical activity. The activity portion of the course includes basic instruction in sand volleyball. Students can enroll in only one LFIT course during their career at Carolina. 
2602:This course is designed to cover the study and practice of special topics directed by an authority in the field. Subject matter will vary per instructor and topic. Students can enroll in only one LFIT course during their career at Carolina. 
2603:Assignments to this class are made for students with special needs in physical education focusing primarily on acute and chronic physical limitations. Activities are assigned commensurate with interests and abilities. Students are required to present an exercise prescription from a physician including prescribed activities and limitations. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2604:Provides a cardiovascular fitness program incorporating physiologically safe dance and exercise movements to music. It develops strength, flexibility, and improved cardiorespiratory efficiency. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2605:Challenges students to achieve higher levels of overall fitness in a cardiovascular program that combines stations of muscular strength with endurance while incorporating a wide variety of equipment. Students are expected to be able to participate in a minimum of 20 minutes of aerobic exercise. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2606:Designed to teach the beginning student proper techniques of target shooting with a bow and arrow, this course deals with history, terminology, safety, and equipment selection. Shooting techniques included are the stance, nocking, drawing, anchoring, aiming, releasing, and following through. The use of the bowsight and target scoring are presented. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2607:The course includes an orientation to the history and rules of the game, terminology, and equipment. Basic skills and techniques include the proper grip, stance, footwork, forehand and backhand clears, long and short serves, net shots, around-the-head shot, and the smash. Presents basic single and double game strategies. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2608:The technique and vocabulary of classical ballet are presented. Exercises at the barre are followed by practice and combinations in the center. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2609:Beginning physical fitness program based on the model used by the United States Army Physical Fitness Academy and designed to improve aerobic and anaerobic strength, endurance, and overall physical fitness. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2610:Presents terminology of the game, various grips and stances, the delivery approach, release, and follow through. Pick up spare leaves, releasing straight, hook, and back-up balls, reading the lanes, and handicapping are also included. Rules and scoring as well as tournament bowling are learned. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2611:The purpose of this course is to introduce students to the history and skill of cycling. The course will focus on maintenance of the bicycle, fitness acquired through the use of cycling, and the skills of climbing, descending, cornering, and balance. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2612:This course is an introduction to the positions, exercises, and steps common to ballet, jazz, and modern dance. It is designed for students with no previous dance experience and is a prerequisite for PHYA 208, 220, and 224. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2613:Covers activities that promote cardiovascular endurance, muscular strength and endurance, and flexibility. The course content includes fitness evaluation, stretching, weight training, aerobic exercise, jogging, and circuit training. Individual exercise programs are developed. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2614:Introduces students to the history, rules, and terminology of the sport of fencing. It traces the development of ancient and modern weapons; presents warm-up, stretching, and conditioning exercises that are specific to the sport; and covers grip, basic positions, and footwork. Individual and team competitions are conducted in the course. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2615:Stresses swing motion and the basic fundamentals. Techniques of the full swing and the short game are presented. Rules and etiquette are covered. Students who shoot 115 or less for 18 holes are not eligible for this beginner course. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2616:Through proper progression, students are exposed to compulsory routines on several pieces of gymnastic apparatus--including the balance beam, parallel bars, pommel horse, rings, horizontal bar--and strength, flexibility, and gross motor coordination. Emphasis is placed on safe spotting techniques and safety awareness. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2617:Introduces students to tacking, grooming, and riding the basic gaits of walk, trot and canter. An additional fee is required; this course is taught off campus. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2618:Students will explore the roots of the jazz style through rhythm, principles of isolation and opposition, shape and energy through center work, stretches, movement across the floor, and simple routines. Previous ballet training is highly recommended. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2619:The purpose of this course is to provide students with the opportunity to develop cardiovascular fitness through a popular activity. Selection of proper clothing and equipment, the physiological effects of a jogging program, care and prevention of common injuries, and the mechanics of jogging are presented. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2620:This course offers an introduction to the basics of one of many martial art styles. Emphasis is on traditional forms, basic movements, philosophy, discipline, and proper class conduct. Students will learn various stances and forms. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2621:Students will explore the principles of movement that define modern dance, gaining some understanding of the use of weight, the shape of the body in space, an awareness of timing and energy, and individual creative potential. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2622:The course introduces the beginner to basic skills, including forehand and backhand drives, grips, footwork, and serves. Safety considerations as well as rules and terminology are covered. Basic strategy is presented involving the return of service, use of ceiling, rear wall, pass, and kill shots. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2623:Required preparation, strong swimming skills. This course prepares students for participation in recreational diving: both skin diving and scuba. Lectures cover physiology of diving, first aid, and decompression. It can lead to certification if students attend open water training dives conducted at the semester's end. An additional fee is required. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2624:This course introduces the basics of self-defense techniques and will instruct the student by incorporating a three-dimensional educational approach. The student will develop skill, knowledge and self-confidence as related to self-defense. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2625:This course is conducted in Boone, North Carolina, for five days over the winter break. It includes orientation to proper equipment selection, the use of lifts and tows, and the basic fundamentals, such as parallel turns, edging concepts, and rhythm. An additional fee is required. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2626:Basic soccer skills are presented including dribbling, shooting, passing, heading, trapping, and tackling. Position play and strategies for basic offense and defense are learned as well as rules and terminology. Conditioning is achieved through drills and game play. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2627:The basic step patterns of popular social dances, such as fox trot, waltz, cha-cha, swing or shag, hustle, tango, and others are taught. Confidence in the ability to lead or to follow is developed. Social enjoyment of dance is emphasized. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2628:Basic shots are learned including forehand and backhand drives, corners, reverse corners, volleys, drop shots, and serves. Rules, terminology, and basic strategies are presented. Appreciation of squash as a game for fitness and fun is developed. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2629:The course consists of swimming skills for students with limited water experience. These skills include water adjustment, floating, kicking, front crawl stroke, rhythmic breathing, and elementary backstroke. Emphasis is on efficient movement through the water. Foundation skills taught enable students to enjoy swimming and other aquatic activities as a lifetime sport. Basic water safety and first aid procedures are included. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2630:This course is designed to promote cardiovascular fitness through swimming. Conditioning and the refinement of stroke techniques will be stressed through stroke practice and workout routines. Topics will include stroke mechanisms of the four competitive strokes, starts, turns, interval, sprint, and long distance training. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2631:Basic skills are learned including forehand and backhand groundstrokes, the volley, and the serve. Rules, terminology, and basic game strategy will be taught. Through play, an increased level of fitness and skill will be gained to promote participation in tennis throughout life. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2632:The purpose of this course is to introduce students to the sport of triathlons integrating the discipline of running, cycling, and swimming. The course is physically challenging and provides information on transitions and maintenance of equipment, as well as setting up a training program. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2633:Teaches the knowledge, skills, and rules of ultimate frisbee in order to develop a lasting interest in lifetime participation and to increase the student's level of physical fitness Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2634:Basic skills are taught including the forearm pass, the overhead pass, setting, spiking, blocking, dinking, and serving. Rules and terminology are included. Basic offensive and defensive strategy is learned. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2635:This course will train students to teach American Red Cross progressive swimming and water safety courses. Course content includes analysis of stroke mechanics, review of water safety skills, and investigation of teaching methodology. Students need to be proficient in front crawl, back crawl, elementary backstroke, breaststroke, and sidestroke. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2636:Basic techniques and knowledge of variable resistance and free weight systems are taught. Fitness evaluation and individual workout programs are included. Development of muscular strength and endurance is stressed. Physiological principles of fitness and their relationships to weight training are also emphasized. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2637:This course will combine instruction in, and practice of, a sport or physical activity that can be sustained in later life, together with instruction in lifelong health. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2638:Students will gain skills necessary to develop a lasting interest in sand volleyball and to increase the student's level of physical fitness. Students will also learn the rules of the sport and how it differs from indoor volleyball. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2639:This course is designed to cover the study and practice of special topics directed by an authority in the field. Subject matter will vary per instructor and topic. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2640:Challenges students to achieve higher levels of cardiovascular, flexibility, and strength fitness through dance and exercise movements to music. Students are expected to be able to participate in a minimum of 20 minutes of aerobic activities. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2641:For the dancer with a solid understanding of the basics of ballet and several years' dance training. It emphasizes more sophisticated steps in longer combinations. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2642:Focuses on refinement of the experienced student's delivery mechanics including the approach, release, and follow through. Maximum quality practice time is emphasized. Alternative approaches and releases are presented and several types of tournaments are conducted. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2643:A review of the footwork and bladework covered in the beginning. Emphasis in this course is on individual and paired exercises rather than on large group lessons. An introduction to officiating is also covered in conjunction with greater competitive opportunities. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2644:Builds on and refines the basic fundamentals of the swing motion. Ball flight control is introduced with more in-depth swing analysis. Students who shoot 85 to 115 for 18 holes are eligible for this course. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2645:The purpose of this course is to provide students with the opportunity to learn more difficult gymnastics skills and to incorporate them in a fluid routine. Added emphasis is placed on muscular strength and flexibility. Safe spotting techniques, particularly for more advanced skills, are stressed throughout the course. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2646:Students will explore the jazz style in greater complexity plus gain understanding of jazz music as it relates to jazz dance. It includes center work, complex movement phrases across floor, adagio, and routines using large movement vocabulary. At least two years of dance and familiarity with jazz style are recommended. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2647:Introduces students to the cardiovascular and overall fitness benefits of running. Students will learn how running can be a lifetime activity when approached sensibly and effectively. Students are expected to be able to run three miles in under 30 minutes prior to registering for this course. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2648:Students will work to develop greater technical skill and continue a more advanced exploration of modern dance principles of effort-shape through center work and phrases of greater length and complexity in the center and across the floor. At least two years of modern dance training are recommended. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2649:Students will review beginning skills. Aspects of competition will be covered, including match preparation, officiating a match, and tournament play. Specific practice will involve shot selection and placement and back wall play. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2650:Basic skills are reviewed and refined. Dead ball situations are studied, especially corner kicks and direct and indirect free kicks. Different systems of play are introduced and evaluated. Positional play is stressed in the development of advanced defensive and offensive tactics. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2651:Techniques for crawl, sidestroke, elementary backstroke, back crawl, and breaststroke are covered. Basic water rescue skills are presented including first aid procedures. Physical fitness is promoted through swimming. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2652:Increased proficiency in four basic skills will be developed. New shots taught include the overhead, the drop, the lob, and spin serve. Strategy for singles and doubles play will be stressed. Emphasis is on increased pace and ball placement. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2653:Students improve execution of basic skills through practice. Stresses safe execution of dives and rolls. Teaches various offensive strategies and defensive alignments. Emphasizes team play. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2654:Emphasizes the development of individualized muscular strength and endurance programs following instruction in the physiological principles and techniques of weight training. Students should have beginning weight training skills, techniques, and knowledge prior to enrolling in this class. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2655:All aspects of leading group fitness activities will be explored and applied, including components of an aerobic exercise class, modifications for individual needs and special populations, health screening, fitness testing. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2656:For the dancer with substantial background in ballet. Speed, endurance, multiple turns, beats, and complicated combinations are emphasized. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2657:Advanced fitness program based on the model used by the United States Army Physical Fitness Academy to further improve aerobic and anaerobic fitness. Builds on conditioning level obtained in PHYA 209. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2658:A review of the footwork and bladework covered in the intermediate course; pair exercises and individual lessons dealing with both technique and tactics. Emphasis in this course is on individual and paired exercises rather than on large group lessons. Officiating is also covered in conjunction with greater competitive opportunities. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2659:Required preparation, a 15 or less handicap. Comprising this course are the ability to score, the analysis of strategy and shot production, and improvement of self-awareness and coping strategies. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2660:Provides more technical flatwork at the walk, trot, and canter, as well as jumping. Course work will be primarily jumping. An additional fee is required; this course is taught off campus. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2661:This course is designed for the dancer with a solid understanding of the principles underlying modern dance and several years of dance training. It focuses on longer and more complicated phases of movements. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2662:Nationally recognized scuba certification may substitute for prerequisite. The course will follow the PADI Advanced Open water course curriculum which contains five specialty dives focusing on deep, night, peak performance buoyancy, underwater navigation, and underwater naturalist. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2663:Individual skill improvement in all shots with pace and accuracy of shots is stressed. Advanced strategies for singles and doubles play are learned. Analysis of opponent's strengths and weaknesses and physical fitness are stressed through drills and games. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2664:This course is on understanding the physical geography of mountain environments and the processes that have created them, shaped them, and sustained them. 
2665:An examination of the ways in which change in the global physical environment, human induced and natural, might impact the Carolinas. 
2666:Explores viewing landscape from the perspective of science and of art, and investigates how an integration of both leads to a better understanding and appreciation of a landscape. 
2667:An examination of the relationship between globalization and localization in order to think about how we, as individuals and groups, can make a difference in the world. 
2668:People developed dogs as a living tool that is being modified to current urban social and demographic needs. 
2669:This course considers memorial landscapes created to reinforce values symbolized by the person, group, or event memorialized. It looks at how disagreements and cultural changes affect memorial landscape interpretation. 
2670:This seminar examines the role traditional and modern spaces play in representations of the Middle East and how Middle Easterners engage these contested spaces to construct their cultural and political identities. 
2671:This course will examine a variety of aspects of health care, including the biomedical system, health care in non-Western countries, alternative practitioners, beliefs about health, health policies, the role of various media, and healthy places. The emphasis is on the social sciences (geography, anthropology, sociology, mainly) of health. 
2672:Seminar participants, working in small groups, will run climate models and investigate current climate trends, combining the results to create scenarios of future climate for the southeast United States. 
2673:This first-year seminar uses the lens of culture to explore systems of meaning and values, and relations of social power, that are invested in technologies. 
2674:Alternative conceptualizations of nature in Western culture and how these meanings help create the landscapes in which we live and allow us to evaluate the implications of efforts to preserve nature. 
2675:Explores modern Vietnam and situates the American war in broader spatial and historical context. Draws on fact, fiction, and visual media to introduce a fascinating place, rich in history, and to animate a geographic imagination students can take anywhere. 
2676:Examines the popular debate on global warming and its presentation in the media. Covers the scientific basis of climate change, focusing on how the science is presented, distorted, and debated in the public sphere. 
2677:Examines the popular debate on global warming and its presentation in the media. Covers the scientific basis of climate change, focusing on how the science is presented, distorted, and debated in the public sphere. 
2678:Seminar examines the ways that politics, especially contests over territory, are part of our day-to-day life. We will explore a range of cases, from immigration policy and rhetoric in the United States, to popular representations of geopolitics in film, to the politics of family planning in India. 
2679:Special Topics Course. Content will vary each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2680:Emphasizes geographic patterns and interrelationships in energy, climate, terrain, and life. Develops integrative view of how atmospheric, hydrologic, geomorphic, and biotic processes create global patterns in the environment. Incorporates influence of human activities on earth. Class will help students understand the natural environment, both globally and in North Carolina. 
2681:Emphasizes geographic patterns and interrelationships in energy, climate, terrain, and life. Develops integrative view of how atmospheric, hydrologic, geomorphic, and biotic processes create global patterns in the environment. Incorporates influence of human activities on earth. Class will help students understand the natural environment, both globally and in North Carolina. 
2682:An introduction to the nature and causes of weather variability and climate change and their impact on human activity. No laboratory. (Core) 
2683:Introduces the science and art of map making and will lay the conceptual foundation necessary to understand how and why maps are made and used. 
2684:A survey of the geographic structure of human activity in major world regions and nations. Emphasizes current developments related to population, urbanization, and economic activity. (Core) 
2685:This course examines places and the connections between places to build critical understandings of the role of human geographies in global economic, political, social, and cultural systems. (Core) 
2686:How population, environment, and human culture is expressed in technology and organization interact over space and time. (GHA) 
2687:This course explores the relationship between gender and place and introduces feminist approaches to key geographical concepts. We will study how places that we live in shape our gender identities and how gender relations affect our worlds. Topics include bodies, home, city, migration, development, nationalism, and war. 
2688:Explores how everyday culture helps create the landscapes and places in which we live and what these landscapes tell us about ourselves. 
2689:An introduction to historical and contemporary ideas about practices and meanings of development. Students will explore "development" in a global landscape of poverty, power, and struggles over inequality. 
2690:An introduction to historical and contemporary ideas about practices and meanings of development. Students will explore "development" in a global landscape of poverty, power, and struggles over inequality. 
2691:Survey of international social, political, and cultural patterns in selected societies of Africa, Asia, America, and Europe, stressing comparative analysis of conflicts and change in different historical contexts. LAC recitation sections offered in French, German, and Spanish. 
2692:Survey of environmental change as driven by physical processes and human activity. Problem-solving methods are explored. Focus on issues such as global warming, ozone depletion, deforestation, extinction, pollution, wetland loss. This course will provide significant background in physical geography in the context of today's most pressing environmental concerns and with reference to the societal implications and management strategies. (No lab.) (Core) 
2693:Gender, race, and class are examined in terms of the spatial patterns of everyday life, regional patterns, and global patterns. (GHA) 
2694:Explores the evolution, patterns, and processes of urbanization and the development of cities and city systems. Emphasis on the origin, growth, and spatial distribution of cities and on the internal spatial organization of activities within cities. (GHA) 
2695:A study of environmental parameters, cultural preferences, technological developments, and spatial economic infrastructure that result in world patterns of food consumption, production, and distribution. (GHA) 
2696:Includes one-hour laboratory. Atmospheric processes including radiation, dynamics, and thermodynamics are emphasized. Circulations across a range of temporal and spatial scales are described. Links between environmental problems and the atmosphere are explored. 
2697:An introduction to Latin American geography through an examination of how the region came to be distinct and how social, political, and economic processes continue to define it. (Regional) 
2698:A survey of the cultural and physical landscapes of the United States and Canada. Emphasis on landscape evolution, present distributions, and interactions between people and their environment. (Regional) 
2699:Present-day Southern United States, approached historically through a study of its physical, economic, and cultural environment. (Regional) 
2700:A survey of the cultural, economic, and physical diversity of North Carolina. Emphasizes regional patterns, historical changes, and the appearance of the landscape. (Regional) 
2701:This course explores the biogeography of Siberia and gives students practical training on how to do field work in field ecology and physical geography. 
2702:This course will give students a multidisciplinary introduction to growing field of biodiversity preservation. students lacking the prerequisite. 
2703:Spatial structure of population, urbanization, agriculture, industrialization, and regional links in China, Japan, and Korea. (Regional) 
2704:Sociological, biophysical, and geographical elements are integrated to examine interactions of population and environment in Thailand and neighboring countries. Diverse data sources and perspectives will be used to examine local to global issues. (Regional) 
2705:Introduces students to the geography of South Asia, including an overview of the physical environment, cultural practices, and economic development. Emphasizes the political geography of South Asia and political and social processes such as nationalism and colonialism that have played a formative role in the region. 
2706:Focuses on dynamic sociocultural, political, economic, and environmental issues shaping contemporary sub-Saharan Africa to develop an understanding of major drivers of stark physical, environmental, and socioeconomic contrasts across the continent and trajectories for the future. Themes include land use and environmental change, historical legacies, urbanization, economic growth, and trade. 
2707:The Social and ecological implications of resource conservation and eonomic development in a World Heritage Site are examined in the Galapagos Islands of Ecuador. 
2708:This course provides a systematic introduction to China as an emerging political and economic power. From a geographic perspective, this course addresses uneven human and physical landscapes, the historical evolution and current status of the natural environment, economic development, and human well being. 
2709:Permission of the instructor. For students who wish to participate in departmental research programs. May be taken twice. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2710:Permission of the instructor. Special reading and research in geography under the supervision of a selected instructor. Course may not be taken more than twice. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2711:A survey of geographic data sources including maps, photos, digital images, Census information, and others. Emphasis is on appropriate uses, limitations, and skilled interpretation in physical and human geography applications. (Core) 
2712:Exploration of topics in contemporary geography. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2713:This course provides an introduction to the application of statistical methods to geographic problems and to statistical packages in their solution. Attention given to spatial data analysis and sampling methods. 
2714:Introduces geographic research methods and develops skills to conduct independent research. Themes include spatial analysis, knowledge production, methodology, theory and evidence, and principles of informed argument. Students gain experience with multiple methods applicable to the study of diverse topics. 
2715:Principles of analysis of the atmosphere are applied to the analysis of environmental phenomena. The link between the atmosphere and other environmental compartments is explored through environmental case studies. 
2716:Uses systems theory and computer models to understand ecosystem energy and matter flows, such as energy flow in food webs, terrestrial ecosystem evapotranspiration and productivity, related to climate, vegetation, soils, and hydrology across a range of spatial and temporal scales. 
2717:An analysis of synoptic weather patterns and the processes responsible for them. Climatological aspects of these weather patterns are emphasized. (EES) 
2718:An investigation of the scientific basis of climate change (past, present, and future), the current state of knowledge concerning future projections, and the implications of climate change for society and the environment. 
2719:Applied climatology involves the interdisciplinary application of climate data and techniques to solve a wide range of societal and environmental problems. This projects-based course investigates how climate impacts a range of sectors, including water resources, urban environments, ecosystems, and human health. 
2720:Involves evaluation of landscapes by examining nature and biophysical elements influencing landscape form and function. Course emphasizes data collection, analysis, and interpretation using GIS and field methods. (EES) 
2721:A study of the spatial components of current social problems, such as poverty, race relations, environmental deterioration and pollution, and crime. (GHA) 
2722:This course considers the theoretical and empirical dimensions of religion from a geographical perspective. The course introduces the key theories linking space, place, and religion and helps students apply these new theoretical tools to examine some of the pressing issues in the contemporary study of religion. 
2723:Studies the changing landscapes of contemporary urbanism. Emphasis on patterns of economic development, housing, and infrastructure in cities in a global context. (GHA) 
2724:An interdisciplinary exploration of urban social problems, bridging the literature on urban geography with that on urban politics. Students will be required to complete 30 hours of service for an organization that works on an urban social issue. 
2725:This course explores the relationship between patterns of urban development in the United States and migration, in both historical and contemporary contexts. 
2726:Examines the role of the interactions of cultures, environments, and human diseases in the quest for sustainable agriculture by examining the cultural ecology of agriculture systems and their human diseases. (GHA) 
2727:This course brings geographical perspectives on place, space, scale, and environmental change to the study of environmental politics. In lectures, texts, and student research, students examine topics including environmental health risks, globalization and urban environments, and the role of science in environmental politics. (GHA) 
2728:Interdisciplinary course for advanced undergraduates and graduate students. Focuses on multiscale environmental issues and related social, institutional, governance, and policy challenges. Examines key concepts and theories involving global environmental change and problem-solving efforts. 
2729:This course will focus on the processes of soil formation, erosion, and landform evolution with an emphasis on the interaction of geomorphic processes with surface hydrology and ecosystems. (EES) 
2730:Introduction to hydrologic and geomorphic processes and forms in watersheds as applied to problems in flood analysis, water quality, and interactions with ecosystem processes. Covers drainage networks, nested catchments, and distribution and controls of precipitation, evaporation, runoff, and groundwater flow. (EES) of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisite. 
2731:Introduction to landforms and processes associated with flowing water at the earth's surface. Hydrology, sedimentology, and theories of channel formation and drainage basin evolution. (ESS) 
2732:This course is concerned with the application of biogeographical principles and techniques to the study of natural and human-modified landscapes. It includes local and extraregional case studies. (EES) 
2733:The human ecology of health is studied by analyzing the cultural/ environmental interactions that lie behind world patterns of disease distribution, diffusion, and treatment, and the ways these are being altered by development. (GHA) 
2734:This course covers basics, including personnel and facility distributions, accessibility, regionalization, and location/allocation modeling; spatial analysis and GIS; and the cultural geography of health care, including humanist and political-economic perspectives. (GHA) 
2735:Examines gender, space, and place relationships in the modern Middle East. Investigates shifting gender geographies of colonialism, nationalism, modernization, and globalization in this region. (GHA) 
2736:Examines modern Muslim geographies that are created by transnational flows, connections, and imaginaries that cross national and regional boundaries across the Middle East, Southeast Asia, and beyond. 
2737:Introduction to contemporary and historical changes in human population, international development, and the global environment and how these processes interact, drawing on population geography as an organizing framework. 
2738:This course explores the contemporary experience of migrants. Various theoretical approaches are introduced, with the emphasis on a political- economic approach. (GHA) 
2739:The geography of politics is explored at the global, the nation-state, and the local scale in separate course units, but the interconnections between these geographical scales are emphasized throughout. (GHA) 
2740:A study of selected past geographies of the United States with emphasis on the significant geographic changes in population, cultural, and economic conditions through time. (GHA) 
2741:This course explores a systems and cultural-ecological view of agriculture, environment, natural resource, and rural development issues in Latin America. It serves as a complement to GEOG 458 Urban Latin America. (Regional) students lacking the prerequisite. 
2742:This course examines urban social issues in contemporary Latin America. Cities and their residents will be considered in relation to each other and to North American examples. (Regional) students lacking the prerequisite. 
2743:This course is designed to explore changing geographies of production and consumption in theory and in practice. 
2744:A survey by topic and country of Europe west of Russia. Those features that make Europe a distinct and important region today are emphasized. (Regional) 
2745:Examines foundational concepts and methods and their relevance for understanding nature-society relationships. Discussions on environmental change and conflict and how nature is bound up with relations of power and constructions of identity. 
2746:Covers fundamental theory and mechanics of remote sensing, related theoretical aspects of radiation and the environment, and remote- sensing applications relating to terrestrial, atmospheric, and marine environments. Hands-on experience for application and information extraction from satellite-based imagery through biweekly laboratory assignments. Prepares students for GEOG 577. (GISc) 
2747:An examination of the theory and history of resistance in the modern world, including instances of contestation from 'foot dragging' to the formation of social movements, and exploring the relationship between place and protest. 
2748:Examines critical perspectives on globalization through research interviews conducted by social scientists working on topics ranging from land reform in Brazil to international banking. 
2749:Stresses the spatial analysis and modeling capabilities of organizing data within a geographic information system. (GISci) students lacking the prerequisite. 
2750:Open to junior and senior geography majors. Geography internships combine substantive geographic work experience with an academic project designed to integrate theory and practice. Field work is included. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2751:Explores theory and application of geographic information systems (GIS) for public health. The course includes an overview of the principles of GIS in public health and practical experience in its use. (GISci) 
2752:This course explores how neighborhood context influences the health of the populations living in them. It includes a survey of neighborhoods and health theory and empirical examples. (GHA) 
2753:This course teaches qualitative methods in geography for graduate and advanced undergraduate students. We will cover interviews, focus groups, visual, and other methodologies. We will also discuss modes of analysis, coding, and writing up qualitative research for publication. 
2754:Acquisition, processing, and analysis of satellite digital data for the mapping and characterization of land cover types. (GISci) 
2755:Applied issues in the use of geographic information systems in terrain analysis, medical geography, biophysical analysis, and population geography. (GISci) 
2756:This course will teach students the elements of GISci software development using major GIS platforms. Students will modularly build a series of applications through the term, culminating in an integrated GIS applications program. 
2757:Global Positioning Systems (GPS) fundamental theory, application design, post processing, integration of GPS data into GIS and GPS application examples (such as public health, business, etc.) will be introduced. 
2758:This course focuses on modeling the terrestrial forest ecosystems processes, including population dynamics, energy, water, nutrients, and carbon flow through the ecosystem. (GISci) instructor for students lacking the prerequisite. 
2759:Are technological choices open to democratic participation? Through a novel research workshop format, this graduate and undergraduate course explores political and geographical dimensions of technological change around key environmental issues--energy, water, and waste. 
2760:By permission of the department. Required of all students aspiring to honors in geography. Directed readings, research, and writing. 
2761:A systematic study of the approaches, key concepts, and methods of geography, emphasizing the application of these approaches through hands-on independent research designed and implemented by the students. (Core) 
2762:A field-based course focused on the geologic story of North Carolina. Includes local field trips and weekend trips to the coast and mountains 
2763:Get hands-on experience with the reconstruction of vertebrate fossils. Learn the paleontology of the Carolinas and beyond. 
2764:This seminar provides a hands-on introduction to active geologic and environmental processes in eastern California, including active volcanoes, earthquake-producing faults, and extreme climate change. 
2765:This seminar provides a hands-on introduction to active geologic and environmental processes in eastern California, including active volcanoes, earthquake-producing faults, and extreme climate change. 
2766:Global warming is the most important environmental problem of the 21st century. This seminar explores geologic history of global warming, its physical principles, and prospects for future societies. 
2767:Examination of the problem of natural versus human-induced climate change from the perspective of the geologic record of earth history. Field trips to coast, Piedmont, and Blue Ridge. 
2768:Origins and effects of waste in the environment. Introduces natural wastes and ecosystem recycling, but focuses on case studies of generation, environmental impacts, and remediation of anthropogenic wastes. 
2769:Discussions are centered on the most pressing issues of our time: environmental deterioration and construction of a sustainable (livable) world during and after the depletion of traditional energy resources. 
2770:Volcanoes provide a breathable atmosphere, a habitable climate, and precious ores, but they have the potential to destroy civilization. This seminar will explore the uneasy coexistence of volcanoes and civilization. 
2771:An investigation of the geologic evolution and function of coastal environments, the recent effects of coastal development and engineering, and an examination of existing coastal management strategies and the tensions between coastal development and the desire to preserve natural environments. 
2772:Special topics course. Content will vary each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2773:Major geologic events: earthquakes, volcanic activity, mountain formation, plate tectonics, and erosion. Landscape development by glaciers, streams and groundwater, ocean currents and waves, wind. Not open to students with credit in or currently enrolled in GEOL 105, 109, or 111. Optional laboratory: GEOL 101L. PX credit for GEOL 101+101L. 
2774:Study of common minerals and rocks. Use of topographic and geologic maps to illustrate geologic processes. Two laboratory hours a week. 
2775:Introduction to marine sciences emphasizing physical, chemical, biological, and geological phenomenon in oceanic and coastal environments. Human use of, and impact on, marine resources. Science majors should take MASC 401. Students may not receive credit for both MASC 101 and MASC 401. 
2776:Earth is changing catastrophically through volcanoes, earthquakes, hurricanes, and meteoric impacts. Explore the causes and effects of these phenomena and their impact on human development. Not open to students with credit in or currently enrolled in GEOL 101, 109, or 111. Optional laboratory: GEOL 101L. PX credit for GEOL 105+101L. 
2777:Students quantify global depletion of energy resources and accompanying environmental degradation, discovering the profound changes in attitudes and behavior required to adjust to diminished fossil fuels and modified climate. 
2778:Study of the solid earth and plate tectonics. Evolution of the atmosphere and oceans. Climate change. Origin of life, evolution and mass extinctions. Not open to students with credit in or currently enrolled in GEOL 101, 105, or 110. Optional laboratory: GEOL 101L. PX credit for GEOL 109+101L. 
2779:Interactions between Earth systems. Topics include plate tectonics, climate change, history of life, and biogeochemical cycles. This course is restricted to science majors only. Not open to students with credit in or currently enrolled in GEOL 101, 105, or 110. Optional laboratory: GEOL 101L. PX credit for GEOL 110+101L. 
2780:Fossils and the origin and evolution of life, including micro- and macroevolution, mass extinctions, the evolution of dinosaurs and humans, and scientific perspectives on multicultural creationism. Optional laboratory, GEOL 101L. PX credit for GEOL 159 + 101L. 
2781:An undergraduate seminar course that is designed to be a participatory intellectual adventure on an advanced, emergent, and stimulating topic within a selected discipline in geological sciences. This course does not count as a credit towards geological sciences majors. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2782:An introduction to the solid earth, and with GEOL 201 is an overview of earth systems for students continuing in geological, environmental, and other sciences. Topics include synthesis of the elements, formation of the solar system and earth, plate tectonics, earth materials, internal energy, magnetism, geochemical cycles, and earth resources. 
2783:This course focuses on the biological, chemical, and physical processes that shape the surface of the earth. Major points of emphasis will include earth's climate, the global water cycle, geomorphic processes and the landforms they create, sedimentology and depositional environments, and elements of earth history recorded by earth surface processes. 
2784:Required preparation, one introductory geology course numbered below GEOL 202, except first-year seminar. History of the earth (including its oceans, atmosphere, and life forms) as deciphered from the geologic record. Birth of continents/oceans; evolution and extinction of life forms; the changing global environment. 
2785:Required preparation, one introductory geology course numbered below GEOL 202, except first-year seminar. Effects and probable effects of meteorite and asteroid impacts on earth and other planets: craters, new meteorites, and tektites; giant sea waves; reduction of species and extinction of organisms. 
2786:Required preparation, one introductory geology course numbered below GEOL 202, except first-year seminar. Environmental and human problems connected with uses of earth materials and with geological processes. Mineral and water resources, land-use planning, and engineering geology. 
2787:Required preparation, one introductory geology course numbered below GEOL 202, except first-year seminar. Earth system science approach to the study of planet earth. Influence of earth processes on the environment. Earthquakes, volcanoes, plate tectonics, global climate change. 
2788:Required preparation, one geology course numbered below GEOL 202, except first-year seminar. Considers the distribution, extraction, economics, and demand for mineral resources. Treats the impact of the mineral industry on industrial and preindustrial economies, economic factors, maldistribution and depletion of resources, and the environmental impact of the mineral extraction industry. 
2789:Required preparation, one geology course numbered below GEOL 202, except first-year seminar. General introduction to the geologic evolution of North America. Provides students with an understanding and appreciation of diverse natural regions of the United States and Canada. Selected national parks serve as case studies of regional geologic history. 
2790:Introduction to geologic field methods. Includes making observations, mapping, identification of structures and features, and interpretation to solve basic geologic problems. Many field trips. 
2791:Minerals in sedimentary, igneous, and metamorphic environments: their properties, occurrence, and uses. Methods of identifying minerals, including use of optical properties. Three lecture and three laboratory hours a week. permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisite. 
2792:An exploration of the large-scale evolution of coastal environments, including relevance of geologic setting, wave and sediment transport processes, the evolution of beach and barrier island morphology, and issues of coastal environmental management. instructor for students lacking the prerequisite. 
2793:This introductory course will cover two broad themes: the physical processes of the hydrologic cycle and how human use (and abuse) of freshwater resources can lead to major environmental problems. 
2794:Students will conduct laboratory and field experiments to reinforce the topics covered in ENEC/GEOL 324. PX credit for ENEC/GEOL 324 + 324L. 
2795:Permission of the department. Topics and instructors vary from semester to semester. Course may be repeated. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2796:Permission of the department. Topics and instructors vary from semester to semester. Course may be repeated. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2797:Permission of the instructor. Research in geology under the supervision of a selected instructor. Approved learning contract required. May be repeated up to four times for a maximum of 12 credits. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2798:Permission of the instructor. Independent study under the supervision of a selected instructor. Learning contract required. May be repeated up to four times for a maximum of 12 credits. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2799:Introduction to the mechanical behavior and dynamic evolution of the earth's crust through the study of deformed rocks. Includes weekend field trip to western North Carolina. 
2800:Introduction of principles involved in description and classification of sedimentary rocks and stratigraphic units as well as stratigraphic correlation. Students will be introduced to relationships of processes, depositional environments, and sedimentary facies. 
2801:Required preparation, major in a natural science or two courses in natural sciences. Studies origin of ocean basins, seawater chemistry and dynamics, biological communities, sedimentary record, and oceanographic history. Term paper. Students lacking science background should see MASC 101. Students may not receive credit for both MASC 101 and MASC 401. 
2802:Studies of the origin and evolution of igneous and metamorphic rocks, including microscopic, X-ray, and field methods; volcanology; plate- tectonic interpretation of rock sequences. Three lecture and three laboratory hours a week. students lacking the prerequisite. 
2803:Principles of geological and related Earth systems sciences are applied to analyses of environmental phenomena. The link between the lithosphere and other environmental compartments is explored through case studies of environmental issues. Three lecture hours and one laboratory hour a week. PHYS 115 or 119; permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
2804:Principles of analysis of the ocean, coast, and estuarine environments and the processes that control these environments are applied to the analysis of environmental phenomena. Case studies of environmental issues. Three lecture hours and one laboratory hour a week. PHYS 115 or 119; permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
2805:This course develops the knowledge and skills teachers need to implement inquiry-based earth science instruction: conceptual knowledge of earth sciences and mastery of inquiry instructional methods. Students study inquiry in cognitive science and learning theory. This course is a requirement for the UNC-BEST program in geological sciences. 110; and at least two of the four geology core courses: GEOL 301, 401, 402, and 404. 
2806:Field-oriented course on larger Ordovician through Pliocene fossil invertebrates in the central and eastern United States. Students develop a reference collection of over 250 genera and species, with data of stratigraphy and biostratigraphy. Three lecture and two laboratory hours a week. permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 8 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2807:Methods for developing explanatory and predictive models of environmental processes are explored. Includes discussion of the relevant scientific modes of analysis, mathematical methods, computational issues, and visualization techniques. Two lecture hours and one computer laboratory hour a week. 
2808:Introduction to process geomorphology with emphasis on quantitative interpretation of weathering, hill slope, fluvial, glacial, and eolian processes from topography and landscapes. the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
2809:Two laboratory hours per week. 
2810:Permission of the instructor. The application of geological principles and techniques to the solution of archaeological problems. Studies geological processes and deposits pertinent to archaeological sites, geologic framework of archaeology in the southeastern United States, and techniques of archaeological geology. Field trips to three or more sites; written reports required. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2811:Origin of the solar system: the nebular hypothesis. Evolution of the earth and its accretionary history. Earthquakes: plate tectonics and the interior of the earth. The earth's magnetic field. Mantle convection. 311 and 401. 
2812:Introduction to modern shallow-water clastic environments and their sediments, emphasizing barrier islands, deltas, estuaries, wetlands, and tidal flats. Includes local field trips and discussion/application of data- collecting techniques. 
2813:An in-depth study of the biostratigraphy, paleoecology, and taxonomy of various microfossil groups (i.e., foraminifera, ostracodes, conodonts, coccoliths, radiolaria, diatoms, acritarchs, dinoflagellates, etc.) dependent upon individual student objectives. Three lecture and three laboratory hours a week. instructor for students lacking the prerequisite. 
2814:Introduction to mechanisms that drive climate. Examination of past climate reconstructions using ecological and geochemical proxies. Utility of computer models to reconstruct past climates and predict future climate change. Emphasis placed on late Quaternary. for students lacking the prerequisite. 
2815:Origin and distribution of pelagic sediments. Review of the major Mesozoic and Cenozoic events in the world oceans. Glacial/interglacial changes in the ocean/atmosphere system. for students lacking the prerequisite. 
2816:Descriptive account of global seismology, earthquake distribution, and focal mechanics. Principles of geometrical optics and applications to imaging the earth's interior. Principles of seismic prospecting of hydrocarbon and geothermal reservoirs. the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
2817:Principles of chemistry, biology, and geology are applied to analysis of the fate and transport of materials in environmental systems, with an emphasis on those materials that form the most significant cycles. Three lecture hours and one laboratory hour a week. 119; permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
2818:Principles and applications of fluid dynamics to flows of air and water in the natural environment. Conservation of momentum, mass, and energy applied to lakes, rivers, estuaries, and the coastal ocean. Dimensional analysis and scaling emphasized to promote problem-solving skills. students lacking the prerequisite. 
2819:Introduction to the principles, methods of analysis, and major controversies within paleontology. Examination of the fossil record and its application to problems in evolutionary biology, paleoecology, paleoclimatology, and general earth history. instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
2820:Mathematical modeling of dynamic systems, linear and nonlinear. The fundamental budget equation. Case studies in modeling transport, biogeochemical processes, population dynamics. Analytical and numerical techniques; chaos theory; fractal geometry. students lacking the prerequisite. 
2821:Required preparation, four GEOL courses or permission of the instructor. Focus is on applying GIS concepts and techniques to mining and petroleum geology, resource assessment, hydrogeology, coastal and marine geology, physical oceanography, engineering geology, and a geologic perspective on land use. Three lecture and two laboratory hours a week. 
2822:Key topics and resources for high school teachers preparing to teach earth and environmental sciences. Includes lithosphere, tectonic processes, hydrosphere, atmosphere, origin of solar system and life, and environmental stewardship. 
2823:Permission of the instructor. Theory and practice of analytical methods in geochemistry including X-ray diffraction, X-ray fluorescence, and scanning electron microscopy; introduction to electronics. 
2824:This course will focus on the processes of soil formation, erosion, and landform evolution with an emphasis on the interaction of geomorphic processes with surface hydrology and ecosystems. (EES) 
2825:For graduate students; undergraduates need permission of the instructor. Investigates formation of ocean basins, coastal and fluvial processes, sediment transport, plate tectonics, petrography of marine rocks, ocean chemistry, oceanic biogeochemical cycles, application of geochemical proxies in paleoceanographic reconstructions, macroevolutionary patterns of marine biota, global oceanic change. Mandatory weekend fieldtrip. 
2826:Origin of magmas and evolution of igneous and metamorphic rocks, combined with petrographic study of selected sites and individual examples. Two lecture and six laboratory hours a week. 
2827:Graduate students only; undergraduates must have permission of the instructor. Overview of chemical processes in the ocean. Topics include physical chemistry of seawater, major element cycles, hydrothermal vents, geochemical tracers, air-sea gas exchange, particle transport, sedimentary processes, and marine organic geochemistry. Three lecture and two recitation hours per week. 
2828:For graduate students; undergraduates need permission of the instructor. Descriptive oceanography, large-scale wind-driven and thermohaline circulations, ocean dynamics, regional and nearshore/estuarine physical processes, waves, tides. Three lecture and one recitation hour per week. 
2829:An overview of the mechanisms of cyclic climate forcing and a review of the geologic evidence for these climate rhythms, with a particular emphasis on the Milankovitch orbital cycles. 
2830:An introduction to methodologies and instrumentation for quantifying the movement of water in the earth system focusing on components of the hydrologic cycle. Emphasis is divided between analytical aspects and field procedures. permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
2831:Introduction to physics, chemistry, and geology of groundwater. MATH 231; PHYS 104 or 114 or 116; Permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
2832:Survey of processes affecting the compositions of streams, lakes, the ocean, and shallow ground waters. MATH 231; Permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
2833:Introduction to the theory, methods, and applications of stable isotopes to environmental problems. Primary focus will be on the origin, natural abundance, and fractionation of carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen isotopes. 
2834:Introduction to the application of chemical principles to geological problems. Topics include thermodynamics, kinetics, and isotope geochemistry. MATH 231; permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
2835:Junior or senior status. Analysis of 23 rivers from St. Lawrence to the Everglades, from headwaters to oceanic terminus of turbidite fan. Focus on stream processes, geologic development, hydrology, utilization history, ecology, and planning. 
2836:Introduction to the fundamentals of global geophysics: gravity, seismology, magnetism, heat, and plate tectonics. Both shallow and deep processes are considered. Emphasis is aimed at problem solving by applying concepts. 
2837:Examination of lithostratigraphic principles and the sequence stratigraphic paradigm. Students will study use of variation of well log signature reflection attributes and reflection termination patterns to identify and correlate sequences and systems and to interpret the lithology and depositional history of subsurface stratigraphic units. 
2838:Interior of the earth deduced from seismology, gravity, heat flow, magnetism; geophysics of continents and ocean basins; age of earth. PHYS 104 and 105, or 114 and 115. 
2839:Required preparation, an introductory geology course numbered below 202, except first-year seminar, or permission of the instructor. Introduction to quantitative analysis in earth sciences: solid earth, atmospheres, oceans, geochemistry, and paleontology. Topics covered: univariate and multivariate statistics, testing, nonparametric methods, time series, spatial and cluster analysis, shapes. 
2840:Examination of the use of lateral and vertical changes in sedimentary facies to identify depositional processes and environments of deposition within the terrestrial, marginal marine, shelf, and deep sea clastic depositional systems. These systems will be examined in a sequence stratigraphic framework. 
2841:Required preparation, introductory courses in geology and physics. Course is aimed at understanding the physical properties and processes controlling volcanism and magma transport. Topics covered include volcanic processes from the formation of magma in the upper mantle to violent eruption at the surface. Emphasizes dynamic processes and underlying mechanisms. 
2842:Students study the origin, migration, and entrapment of hydrocarbons in sedimentary basins and learn how several areas of the geosciences are integrated to locate and produce hydrocarbons. Students learn about these topics while analyzing a real subsurface data set. instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
2843:The course deals with earth science problems related to extracting model parameters from data and field observations. Details of mathematical concepts, real world examples, and practical applications associated with noisy or incomplete data are covered. Key concepts include multivariate regression, model discretization, Tikhonov regularization, and Bayesian methods. 
2844:Biogeochemical cycling explores interfaces of marine, aquatic, atmospheric, and geological sciences emphasizing processes controlling chemical distributions in sediments, fresh and salt water, the atmosphere, and fluxes among these reservoirs. or permission of the instructor. 
2845:Recommended preparation, CHEM 261 or MASC 505, and one additional ENVR, GEOL, or MASC course above 400. Sources, transformations, and fate of natural organic matter in marine environments. Emphasis on interplay of chemical, biological, and physical processes that affect organic matter composition, distribution, and turnover. 
2846:An introduction to the fossil record of plants, investigating how plants originated and changed through geological time to produce the modern flora. Both macrofossils and microfossils will be considered. Three lecture hours a week. 200; corequisite, BIOL 555L; permission of the instructor for students lacking the requisites. 
2847:The physical properties of fluids, kinematics, governing equations, viscous incompressible flow, vorticity dynamics, boundary layers, irrotational incompressible flow. students lacking the prerequisite. 
2848:Observed structure of the large-scale and mesoscale ocean circulation and its variability, based on modern observations. In-situ and remote sensing techniques, hydrographic structure, circulation patterns, ocean- atmosphere interactions. students lacking the prerequisite. 
2849:The course combines geology, climatology, hydrology, and soil science to explore the evolution of the surface environment of the earth from the Archean to the present, including the great oxidation event and modern ocean anoxia. Students will read research papers and will be encouraged to question and debate course topics. 
2850:Discussion or lab-based consideration of topical issues in earth sciences. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 8 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2851:Three-week field camp conducted in the western United States (Arizona, California, Colorado, Nevada, New Mexico, and/or Utah). Learn proper use of geology field tools and how to make a geologic map. Field interpretation of rocks and their deformation. instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
2852:Prerequisites: GEOL 301, 401, 402, and 404; permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. Three-week field camp conducted in the western United States (Arizona, California, Colorado, Nevada, New Mexico, and/or Utah). Learn advanced mapping skills necessary to interpret geologic history of complexly deformed rocks. 
2853:Required preparation, introductory geology course numbered below GEOL 202, except first-year seminar, or permission of the instructor. Applications of continuum mechanics in the earth sciences, including stress, strain, elasticity, and viscous flow. Numerical solutions to problems in heterogeneous finite strain including finite element analysis. 
2854:An introduction to physical geochemistry and chemical thermodynamics with special emphasis on geological applications. Three lecture hours a week. instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
2855:By permission of the department. For details, see geology degree requirements. 
2856:For details, see geology degree requirements. 
2857:A field course that emphasizes advanced field methods. Emphasis is placed on large-scale, detailed field work in complex structural terrains and on independent mapping that will lead to thesis/dissertation and/or publication. 
2858:Why is it that we cry at the movies? We will focus on the melodrama but also look at comedy and horror to think about emotional responses to films. Students will learn the basics of film analysis, gain an overview of genre cinema, and study approaches to emotion, affect, and the body. 
2859:This seminar investigates youth cultures from the 1940s to the present in the United States and around the world. It offers students a history of how different youth cultures developed over time, and consideration of how the constitution of youth cultures has been influenced by factors like race, class, and gender. 
2860:What is totalitarianism? Can a portrayal of suffering, even death, under a totalitarian state, have artistic value, or must it remain only a political pamphlet? This seminar studies authors who reveal the crimes of totalitarianism, while also showing the moral strength and/or weaknesses of humans victimized by the totalitarian state. 
2861:Special topics course. Content will vary each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2862:Central Europe, at the center of dramatic historical changes--WWI, emergence of independent nation states, WWII and Holocaust, Communism and its end, incorporation into the European Union-- produced unprecedented cultural results. The creative voices of writers and filmmakers have relevance far beyond this region. 
2863:This course examines the relationship between text, music, and the visual arts, focusing on the way in which nonliterary aesthetic content may both mediate and call into question cultural values. 
2864:Traces the invention of race, racism, and discourses of cultural inferiority/superiority throughout Western culture. What historical events created the necessity for racist thinking? How did colonialism and transatlantic migration change Atlantic cultures? Why did black culture become fashionable? Is the 21st century "post-racial"? Readings and course descriptions in English. 
2865:This course examines the different ways in which philosophical texts and works of art presuppose, articulate, and call into question cultural norms and values, with a special emphasis on conceptions of selfhood in various philosophical movements (for example, in Existentialism, the Enlightenment, Romanticism, etc.). 
2866:This course studies magical realism in Central European literature and film by placing it in a global literary/cinema context. Readings and discussions in English. 
2867:Examines selected themes in the history, culture, society, art, and/or literature of Germanic and Slavic/East European countries. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2868:Permission of the director of undergraduate studies. For majors only. Reading and special studies under the direction of a faculty member. 
2869:Permission of the director of undergraduate studies. For majors only. Reading and preparation of an essay under the direction of a faculty member, designed to lead to the completion of the honors thesis. 
2870:Permission of the director of undergraduate studies. For majors only. Introduction to research techniques and preparation of an essay, designed to lead to the completion of the honors thesis. 
2871:Permission of the instructor. Special readings and research in a selected field or topic under the direction of a faculty member. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2872:Rapid introduction to modern Dutch with emphasis on all fundamental components of communication. 
2873:Focuses on increased skills in speaking, listening, reading, global comprehension, and communication. Emphasis on reading and discussion of longer texts. 
2874:Aims to increase proficiency in language skills (reading, speaking, writing) and is constructed around a series of themes meant to introduce students to Dutch society, culture, and history. 
2875:Ability to read and speak Dutch at intermediate to advanced level recommended. Introduction to Dutch literature from Middle Ages to the present. Survey of topics in Dutch culture. students lacking the prerequisite. 
2876:The intersection of literary fantasy with historical reality considered in two ways: (1) fantastic-looking tales based on historical reality; and (2) stories describing fantastic situations that actually came true. 
2877:Critical issues that dominated the 20th century: WWI and Bolshevik Revolution; rise of fascism, Lenin, Stalin, Hitler and their roles; origins and evolution of Cold War; collapse of Eastern Bloc. 
2878:Introduction to pre-Christian culture of Germany, Anglo-Saxon England, and Scandinavia from the late Roman Empire through the Viking Age, as preserved in myths, sagas, charms, inscriptions, and historical documents. 
2879:Fairy tales from different national traditions and historical periods read through various critical lenses, against a backdrop of changing historical conceptions of the child. Works from Grimm, Anderson, Brontë, Disney, etc.Students may not receive credit for both GERM 54 and GERM 279/ CMPL 279. 
2880:Introduces students to study of humanities by examining how the idea of Rome evolved through poetry, history, philosophy, opera, even forgery into a concept that has long outlasted the Romans. 
2881:This course seeks to explore the historically difficult position of minorities in the modern world, using the situation of Jews in Germany from the 18th century to the Holocaust as a case study. 
2882:Examines development of notion of love from antiquity through Middle Ages to today. Discusses marriage, adultery, violence, power, gender roles. Introduces the study of humanities through reading, analysis, and research. 
2883:Stalinist Soviet Union serves as a case study to examine how dictatorships develop and how they tend to be enveloped in justifications and kept in existence by outside observers. 
2884:Students explore the international history, filmic techniques and cultural meanings of non-narrative cinema of the 20th century. Students also transform in-class discussions and individual essays into video projects. 
2885:The intersection of performance in a theater space and in everyday life will serve as a springboard to investigating the diversity of contemporary America. Examines how race, class, religion, sexuality, sexual orientation, history, and death are performed in America today. 
2886:This course seeks to explore literary heroes in European literature from the Middle Ages to the Enlightenment. We will discuss concepts of heroism and how those ideas have changed over time. 
2887:This seminar deals with how encounters between Europe and the African Diaspora have changed notions of race, nation, identity, and belonging in the 20th century. Through engaging with diverse texts--literary, nonliterary, and visual--we will explore the construction of blackness in various national and historical contexts . 
2888:This course focuses on three powerful affective states that challenge the conception of humans as autonomous, independent beings: intensity, vitality, and ecstasy. We will examine both philosophical and artistic representations of these particular states, focusing on the way in which they both endanger and enrich our experience of the world. 
2889:This course focuses on three powerful affective states that challenge the conception of humans as autonomous, independent beings: intensity, vitality, and ecstasy. We will examine both philosophical and artistic representations of these particular states, focusing on the way in which they both endanger and enrich our experience of the world. 
2890:Special topics course. Content will vary each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2891:Develops the four language skills (speaking, listening, reading, writing) in a cultural context. In addition to mastering basic vocabulary and grammar, students will communicate in German about everyday topics. Students may not receive credit for both GERM 105 and GERM 101 or 102. 
2892:Develops the four language skills (speaking, listening, reading, writing) in a cultural context. In addition to mastering basic vocabulary and grammar, students will communicate in German about everyday topics. 
2893:This continuation of GERM 101 emphasizes speaking, listening, reading, writing in a cultural context. Students enhance their basic vocabulary and grammar and will regularly communicate in German about everyday topics. Students may not receive credit for both GERM 105 and GERM 101 or 102. 
2894:This continuation of GERM 101 emphasizes speaking, listening, reading, writing in a cultural context. Students enhance their basic vocabulary and grammar and will regularly communicate in German about everyday topics. 
2895:Experience in German or fluency in another foreign language recommended. An accelerated, intensive course that essentially covers materials of GERM 101 and 102 in one semester. Students may not receive credit for both GERM 105 and GERM 101 or 102. 
2896:Students acquire necessary materials and opportunities to develop further their language skills in a cultural context. They review and expand upon the basic grammar covered in beginning German. Students may not receive credit for both GERM 206 and GERM 203 or GERM 204. 
2897:This interdisciplinary course examines representations of women, concepts of gender, and women's participation in the economic, political, religious, and cultural life of the Middle Ages. Discussion and texts in English. 
2898:This seminar covers popular and pious literature written by and for Jews in the 15th to 18th century in German-speaking countries. Originally written in Old Yiddish, this literature preserved the popular European genres and nonfiction accounts of Jewish community and family life. 
2899:The Reformation was seminal for the development of the modern world. This course will investigate Reformation literature written in the period from the end of the 15th century to the end of the 17th century, and will investigate how Reformation ideas resonate through today. Readings and discussions in English. 
2900:An introduction to the writings of three great German writers of the 19th century who have had enormous impact on the lives of people around the world. Readings and discussions in English. 
2901:An examination of "reality," as defined and redefined by Kant and his successors, in the context of European culture of the late 18th, 19th, and early 20th centuries. Readings and discussions in English. 
2902:The idea of world literature was a German invention, proposed by Goethe to describe literature of universal importance for all of humanity. German thought, and German literature, in particular, remains an important component in this canon. This English-language literature course introduces newcomers to some highlights of modern German literature. 
2903:Introduction to feminist aesthetics and film theory by the examination of the representation of women in German cinema from expressionism to the present. All materials and discussions in English. 
2904:Students acquire necessary materials and opportunities to develop further their language skills in a cultural context. They review and expand upon the basic grammar covered in beginning German. Students may not receive credit for both GERM 206 and GERM 203 or GERM 204. 
2905:Emphasizes further development of the four language skills (speaking, reading, writing, listening) within a cultural context. Discussions focus on modern Germany, Austria, and Switzerland in literature and film. Students may not receive credit for both GERM 206 and GERM 203 or GERM 204. 
2906:Emphasizes further development of the four language skills (speaking, reading, writing, listening) within a cultural context. Discussions focus on modern Germany, Austria, and Switzerland in literature and film. Students may not receive credit for both GERM 206 and GERM 203 or GERM 204. 
2907:An accelerated intensive course that covers the materials of GERM 203 and 204 in one semester. Students may not receive credit for both GERM 206 and GERM 203 or GERM 204. students lacking the prerequisite. 
2908:Offers a historical perspective on the portrayal of medieval culture in film from the 1920s to today. Specific topics include the ideal hero, the quest, etiquette, chivalry, rituals, and love. Readings and discussions in English. 
2909:This course examines concepts that medieval texts utilize in order to articulate an understanding of human beings, their relations to others, their social, political, and religious worlds. Readings and discussions in English. 
2910:Lecture/discussion course on Viking culture, mythology, exploration, and extension of power in northern Europe (approx. 750-1050 CE) as represented in sagas, the Eddas, runic inscriptions, and chronicles. Readings and discussions in English. 
2911:This course draws on a variety of cultural documents to explore both the conflict and cross fertilization between the Christian and Islamic cultures of the Middle Ages. Readings and discussions in English. 
2912:Examines clash between 20th-century writers and the state in countries where a single government or party used an exclusive ideology as justification for interference in cultural and literary affairs. Discussions and texts in English. 
2913:Course aims at an understanding of the South African experience as represented by that country's important writers. Readings include works by Gordimer, Coetzee, Mphahlele, Breytenbach, Fugard, Ndebele, Paton, la Guma. All materials in English. 
2914:How and why was Germany divided into two states after World War II? Were the Cold War and division inevitable? We explore these questions in two chronological contexts, 1945 to 1949 and 1989 to present, using technology to explore Russian archival documents in search of answers. Readings and discussions in English. 
2915:How and why was Germany divided into two states after World War II? Were the Cold War and division inevitable? We explore these questions in two chronological contexts, 1945 to 1949 and 1989 to present, using technology to explore Russian archival documents in search of answers. Readings and discussions in English. 
2916:This course will investigate the central role played by the "German question" in the break-up of the wartime alliance and the political division of western and eastern Europe. Readings and discussions in English. 
2917:An examination of selected cinematic representations (both American and German) of Nazi Germany in terms of their aesthetic properties and propagandistic value. Films with English subtitles; readings and discussions in English. 
2918:Explores important German films of 1919 to 1933, locating them in their artistic, cultural, and historical context. Treats the contested course of Weimar film history and culture and provides a theoretically informed introduction to the study of film and visual materials. Films with English subtitles; readings and discussions in English. 
2919:Examines exciting new directions in German and Austrian cinema from the past 20 years. By analyzing weekly films, students develop skills in film analysis and criticism; read reviews, interviews, and film-theoretical texts; write a film review; and produce a critical essay. Films with English subtitles; readings and discussions in English. Students may not receive credit for both GERM 267 and 367. 
2920:A study of the role of Jews and the "Jewish question" in German culture from 1750 to the Holocaust and beyond. Discussions and texts (literary, political, theological) in English. 
2921:This course explores the major developments of German cinema. All films with English subtitles. Readings and discussions in English. 
2922:Considers fairy tales from several different national traditions and historical periods against the backdrop of folklore, literature, psychoanalysis, and the socializing forces directed at children. .Students may not receive credit for both GERM 279/CMPL 279 and GERM 54. 
2923:This philosophical Approaches course investigates the rich European intellectual foundations on which 20th-century youth culture erected its triumvirate of sex, drugs, and rock music. 
2924:This course brings into dialogue key ideas from seminal German philosophers who anticipated, experienced, or survived the Great War, with contemporary works of German literature, film, and painting. Of concern are the ways philosophy's concepts and art's themes shaped both one another and the idea of war. Readings and discussions in English. 
2925:This course investigates how philosophical thought motivates, inspires, and generates forms of agency and identity against cultural tendencies that limit or erode freedom. Readings, lecture, and discussion in English. 
2926:Examines selected themes in the history, culture, society, art, and/or literature of German-speaking countries. Readings and discussions in English. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2927:Emphasis is on speaking and writing, with shorter readings on contemporary German life to provide subject matter for in-class discussion and regular written compositions. Further goals include improvement of pronunciation and a mastery of grammar. students lacking the prerequisite. 
2928:Introduction to contemporary German society from a sociological perspective. The course emphasizes sustained reflection on family structures, class, gender, race, demography, and the political economy of present-day Germany. students lacking the prerequisite. 
2929:Permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisite. Presents major authors (Goethe, Mann, Kafka, and Brecht), periods, genres, and analysis. An appropriate conclusion to GERM 101-204, it also provides the background for more advanced undergraduate literature courses. Readings, discussions, and essays in German. 
2930:An introduction to the language and culture of German business, commerce, and industry. Special emphasis is given to the acquisition of advanced business-related language skills. students lacking the prerequisite. 
2931:GERM 304 recommended but not required. As a continuation of GERM 304 the course offers a more advanced treatment of the current German economic and business debates and events while further strengthening relevant German language skills. students lacking the prerequisite. 
2932:This course provides a practical and theoretical introduction to translation from and into German. Translation practices will be discussed not only from a linguistic perspective, but also from a cultural and historical perspective. students lacking the prerequisite. 
2933:Introduces students to the rich culture and exciting literature of medieval Germany. Topics include knights and ladies, castles, weaponry, clothing, food, and fantasy. All materials and discussions in German. students lacking the prerequisite. 
2934:Examination of the medieval notion of the crusade, conflicts and exchange between East and West, and the ambiguous portrayals of the East in Western medieval literature. Readings and discussions in German. students lacking the prerequisite. 
2935:Fools are everywhere. Human folly is one of the most distinctive preoccupations of German literature of the early modern period. This course will explore the multiple meanings of the German term "fool" in works from the 15th to the 18th century. students lacking the prerequisite. 
2936:German literature from the Enlightenment to Romanticism. Readings include works by Lessing, Goethe, Schiller, Kleist, and the Romantics. Readings and lectures in German. students lacking the prerequisite. 
2937:Investigation of the interconnectedness of turn-of-the-century arts, philosophy, psychoanalysis with focus on Berlin and Vienna. Works by Nietzsche, Hauptmann, Schnitzler, Freud, Hesse, Hofmannsthal/Strauss, Kafka, Rilke, T. Mann. Readings and lectures in German. students lacking the prerequisite. 
2938:Study of major works of German literature from 1890 to the present by such authors as Thomas Mann, Kafka, Brecht, Hesse, Böll, and Grass. Readings and lectures in German. students lacking the prerequisite. 
2939:Examines exciting new directions in German and Austrian cinema from the past 20 years. By analyzing weekly films, students develop skills in film analysis and criticism; read reviews, interviews, and film- theoretical texts; write a film review; and produce a critical essay. Readings and discussions in German. Students may not receive credit for both GERM 267 and 367. 
2940:Introduction to German intellectual history from the Enlightenment to the rise of fascism. Close readings and discussions of texts by Kant, Schiller, Hegel, Marx, Nietzsche, Freud, and Benjamin. Readings and lectures in German. students lacking the prerequisite. 
2941:Famous novellas by authors such as Kleist, Brentano, Meyer, Keller, and Kafka, from the early 19th century to the middle of the 20th century. Readings and discussions in German. students lacking the prerequisite. 
2942:German drama from the late Enlightenment to the present. Texts include plays by dramatists such as Goethe, Schiller, Kleist, Hauptmann, Brecht, and Dürrenmatt. Readings and lectures in German. students lacking the prerequisite. 
2943:.": German Lyrical Poetry through the Centuries. 3 Credits. Survey of German lyric poetry from 18th to 21st century; major poets, forms, literary movements discussed. Readings, class discussions, and public recitation in German. students lacking the prerequisite. 
2944:Students study German plays, write original monodramas, and give two public dramatic performances. Readings, discussions, rehearsals in German aim to enable critique of dramas and theoretical texts. students lacking the prerequisite. 
2945:This course offers an introduction to the German-language literature and culture of Switzerland. Possible authors include: Jeremias Gotthelf, Gottfried Keller, Robert Walser, Friedrich Dürrenmatt, Max Frisch, Christian Kracht. students lacking the prerequisite. 
2946:Presents Austria from the Biedermeier period to the end of the monarchy. Readings of works by authors such as Stifter, Schnitzler, Roth, Freud, Herzl, who articulate artistic, political, historical themes. Readings and lectures in German. students lacking the prerequisite. 
2947:Exploration of the rich cultural and turbulent political history of 20th- century Germany by focusing on the literature, film, art, and architecture produced in and about the city of Berlin. All materials and discussions in German. students lacking the prerequisite. 
2948:Investigates literary & cinematic response to rise in terrorism in Germany since 1970. Focus on cultural and political significance of the gangster, the freedom fighter, & the terrorist. 
2949:Explores the practice in East Germany of adapting earlier literatures and setting contemporary narratives in distant times. East German authors used cultural heritage as a screen for utopian sentiments and for pursuing the relationships between everyday life, historical conditions, and political circumstances. Readings and discussions in German. 
2950:Students may enroll only in conjunction with a German Department course offered in English that features an accompanying discussion section. All materials and discussions in German. May count toward the major or minor in German. students lacking the prerequisite. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2951:A recitation section for selected courses that promote foreign language proficiency across the curriculum (LAC). Readings and discussions in German. May count toward the major and minor in German. students lacking the prerequisite. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2952:Examines selected themes in the history, culture, society, art, and/or literature of German-speaking countries. Readings and discussions in German. students lacking the prerequisite. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2953:Special readings and research in a selected field or topic under the direction of a faculty member. students lacking the prerequisite. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2954:A study of current German structure and usage. Course strengthens the writing of graduate students and helps them confront the problems most frequently faced in speaking and teaching. instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
2955:This course enables a student to earn a maximum of three credit hours for a faculty-supervised internship directly related to the study of German literature or culture, or that uses the German language in day-to-day conduct of business in a German-speaking environment. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2956:Development of phonology and morphosyntax from ancient times to present. Political, social, and literary forces influencing the language. instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
2957:LING 101 recommended for undergraduates. Introduction to formal analysis of German grammar (phonology, morphophonemics, prosodics, morphology, syntax) within the framework of generative grammar. instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
2958:Introduction to medieval German language and literature. Readings in medieval German; lectures in English. instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
2959:Permission of the instructor for undergraduates. Reading and linguistic analysis of Early New High German texts, with study of phonology, morphology, and syntax. On demand. 
2960:Permission of the instructor for undergraduates. Reading and linguistic analysis of Old High German texts, with study of phonology, morphology, and syntax; comparison of the various dialects with other older dialects of Germanic. On demand. 
2961:Permission of the instructor for undergraduates. Reading and linguistic study of biblical texts (Heliand, Genesis) in Old Saxon, with study of phonology, morphology, and syntax; comparison with Old English, Old High German, and other Germanic dialects. On demand. 
2962:Permission of the instructor for undergraduates. Reading and linguistic analysis of Old Norse (Old Icelandic) texts, with study of phonology, morphology, and syntax; comparison with other older dialects of Germanic. On demand. 
2963:Permission of the instructor for undergraduates. Continuation of GERM 514. On demand. 
2964:Permission of the instructor for undergraduates. Reading and linguistic analysis of Gothic biblical texts, with study of phonology, morphology, and syntax; comparison with other older dialects of Germanic. On demand. 
2965:LING 101 recommended for undergraduates. Study of stylistic theories and practices in literature and linguistics, analysis of a large variety of texts, written exercises, training in the use of stylistic devices. instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
2966:LING 101 recommended for undergraduates. Major topics in sociolinguistics: development of the German language, traditional dialects, variation in contemporary speech, German as a minority language (Alsace, Belgium), German outside of Germany (Austria, Switzerland, Luxemburg, Liechtenstein). instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
2967:LING 101 recommended for undergraduates. Special problems will be selected for intensive investigation. Subject matter of the course will be adapted to the particular interests of the students and instructor. instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
2968:LING 101 recommended for undergraduates. instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2969:Permission of the instructor for undergraduates. With GERM 602, a two- semester sequence designed as preparation for the reading knowledge examination for higher degrees in the humanities, social sciences, physical sciences, etc. 
2970:Permission of the instructor for undergraduates. Continuation of GERM 601. 
2971:Permission of the instructor for undergraduates. LING 101 recommended for undergraduates. Analysis of phonological, morphological, and syntactic development from Indo-European to the older stages of Germanic dialects. 
2972:Permission of the instructor for undergraduates. First part of a two- semester sequence offering students a comprehensive, text-based survey of German literary history from the High Middle Ages to the present. 
2973:Permission of the instructor for undergraduates. Second part of a two- semester sequence offering students a comprehensive, text-based survey of German literary history from the High Middle Ages to the present. 
2974:Permission of the instructor for undergraduates. German literature of the 15th, 16th, and 17th centuries. Close readings, lectures, and discussions of representative texts. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2975:Permission of the instructor for undergraduates. Literature in the Age of Enlightenment. Close readings, lectures, and discussions of representative texts. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2976:Permission of the instructor for undergraduates. Literature of the Romantic period. Close readings, lectures, and discussions of representative texts. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2977:Permission of the instructor for undergraduates. Literature of Realism, Naturalism, and related movements. Close readings, lectures, and discussions of representative texts. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2978:Permission of the instructor for undergraduates. Major figures of the period from the turn of the century to World War II. Close readings, lectures, and discussions of representative texts. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2979:Permission of the instructor for undergraduates. Literature since World War II in both the Federal Republic and the former GDR. Close readings, lectures, and discussions of representative texts. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2980:Permission of the instructor for undergraduates. Literature since German unification in 1989. Close readings, lectures, and discussions of representative texts. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2981:Permission of the director of undergraduate studies. For majors only. Reading and special studies under the direction of a faculty member. 
2982:Permission of the director of undergraduate studies. For majors only. Reading and preparation of an essay under the direction of a faculty member, designed to lead to the completion of the honors thesis. 
2983:Permission of the director of undergraduate studies. For majors only. Introduction to research techniques and preparation of an essay, designed to lead to the completion of the honors thesis. 
2984:This course examines Czech film and literature against the backdrop of key historical, political, and cultural events of the 20th century. Taught in English; films sub-titled in English. 
2985:Pronunciation, structure of language, and reading in modern Czech. 
2986:Pronunciation, structure of language, and reading in modern Czech, continued. 
2987:Continuation of proficiency-based instruction begun in Elementary Czech. 
2988:Continuation of proficiency-based instruction begun in Elementary Czech, continued. 
2989:Advanced readings and discussion in Czech in humanities and social science topics. 
2990:Advanced readings and discussion in Czech in humanities and social science topics, continued. 
2991:Introduction to Czech literature with an emphasis on 19th- and 20th- century prose. Taught in English. Some readings in Czech for qualified students. 
2992:This course traces Milan Kundera's literary path from his communist poetic youth to his present postmodern Francophilia . His work will be compared with those authors he considers his predecessors and influences in European literature. Taught in English. Some readings in Czech for qualified students. 
2993:Study of topics in Czech and/or Slovak literature and culture not currently covered in any other course. The specific topic will be announced in advance. Taught in English. Some readings in Czech for qualified students. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
2994:The thousand-year history of a multiethnic corner of Eastern Europe, focusing on why (and how) it has come to be identified in the West with the vampire. Course materials include films, slides, and music. All lectures and readings in English. 
2995:An introduction to Hungarian society and culture since the end of World War II through a selection of film classics with English subtitles, with supporting background materials (in English). 
2996:Pronunciation, structure of language, and reading in modern Hungarian. 
2997:Pronunciation, structure of language, and reading in modern Hungarian, continued. 
2998:Continuation of the proficiency-based instruction begun in Elementary Hungarian. 
2999:Continuation of the proficiency-based instruction begun in Elementary Hungarian, continued. 
3000:Advanced readings and discussion in Hungarian in humanities and social science topics. students lacking the prerequisite. 
3001:Advanced readings and discussion in Hungarian in humanities and social science topics, continued. 
3002:Introduction to the phonology, morphology, and syntax of modern standard Hungarian, with emphasis on some of its distinctive typological features. 
3003:An introduction to Hungarian literature of the last five centuries through a selection of works in English translation, with supporting background materials including films (with English subtitles). Taught in English; some readings in Hungarian for qualified students. 
3004:Study of topics in Hungarian literature and culture not currently covered in any other course. The specific topic will be announced in advance. Taught in English; some readings in Hungarian for qualified students. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
3005:Pronunciation, structure of language, and reading in modern Macedonian. 
3006:Pronunciation, structure of language, and reading in modern Macedonian, continued. 
3007:Continuation of the proficiency-based instruction begun in Elementary Macedonian. 
3008:Continuation of the proficiency-based instruction begun in Elementary Macedonian, continued. 
3009:Advanced reading and discussion in Macedonian in humanities and social science topics. 
3010:Advanced reading and discussion in Macedonian in humanities and social science topics, continued. 
3011:An overview of post-war Polish cinema from the Polish school of the 1950s to the so-called Generation 2000. Includes films of Wajda, Munk, Kieslowski, Polanski, and ohers. 
3012:Pronunciation, structure of language, and reading in modern Polish. 
3013:Pronunciation, structure of language, and reading in modern Polish, continued. 
3014:Continuation of the proficiency-based instruction begun in Elementary Polish. 
3015:Continuation of the proficiency-based instruction begun in Elementary Polish, continued. 
3016:Advanced readings and discussion in Polish on humanities and social science topics. 
3017:Advanced readings and discussion in Polish on humanities and social science topics, continued. 
3018:A survey of the major works of 19th-century Polish literature and culture in English translation. Some readings in Polish for students who can use the language. 
3019:A survey of the major works of 20th-century Polish literature and culture in English translation. Some readings in Polish for students who can use the language. 
3020:Study of topics in Polish literature and culture not currently covered in any other course. The specific topic will be announced in advance. Taught in English. Some readings in Polish for qualified students. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
3021:Introductory course designed to lay the foundation of grammar and to convey basic reading and pronunciation skills. 
3022:Continuation of the introductory course designed to lay the foundation of grammar and to convey basic reading and pronunciation skills. 
3023:Grammar-translation work with increasing proportions of free reading and oral work. 
3024:Grammar-translation work with increasing proportions of free reading and oral work, continued. 
3025:Reading and discussion of selected authors in Russian aimed at improving reading skill and preparing the student for higher level work in Russian literature. students lacking the prerequisite. 
3026:Introduction to Russian prose fiction of the 19th century with particular consideration of selected writings of Pushkin, Gogol, Turgenev, Dostoevsky, Tolstoy, and Chekhov. Lectures and readings in English. 
3027:Literary situations and authors of 1880 to 1917, with emphasis on Chekhov and the Symbolists. Lectures and readings in English. 
3028:Examines the extraordinary diversity of turn-of-the-century Russian culture (1890s to 1917); the proliferation of visual and performance arts; the rise of popular culture; new artistic explorations of gender and sexuality. Lectures and readings in English. 
3029:Russian writers and literary problems from the Revolution to the present. Lectures and readings in English. 
3030:An introduction to the Russian fairy tale with attention to its roots in Russian folklore, its influence on Russian culture, and its connections with American folk and popular culture. Lectures and readings in English. 
3031:The study of mystery and suspense in Russian literature of the 19th and 20th centuries. Readings and class discussions in English. 
3032:A survey of the themes of love, sex, and marriage as they developed in Russian literature and culture from the Bolshevik Revolution to Perestroika. Readings and class discussions in English. 
3033:Survey of masterpieces of Russian literature in the context of their cinematic adaptations. Lectures and readings in English. 
3034:Permission of the instructor. Directed readings in Russian on topics in literature and linguistics not normally covered in scheduled courses. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
3035:Advanced-intermediate Russian conversation, composition, phonetics, and grammar. Meets the needs of learners looking to expand their practical knowledge of contemporary standard Russian in the context of present-day culture, while developing applied skills pertaining to comprehension, production of, and communication in Russian. 
3036:Continuation of RUSS 409, advanced-intermediate Russian conversation, composition, phonetics, and grammar. Meets the needs of learners looking to expand their practical knowledge of contemporary standard Russian in the context of present-day culture, while developing applied skills pertaining to comprehension, production of, and communication in, Russian. 
3037:Designed to develop conversational and writing skills in a variety of situations and subjects. students lacking the prerequisite. 
3038:Designed to develop conversational and writing skills in a variety of situations and subjects. students lacking the prerequisite. 
3039:Advanced Russian conversation and composition, with appropriate grammatical and stylistic explanations. Can be taken repeatedly for credit, but only counts once toward degree requirements. students lacking the prerequisite. 
3040:Continuation of Russian Stylistics at a more advanced level. students lacking the prerequisite. 
3041:A survey of the major novels and stories of 19th century Russian fiction, which have entered the canon of world classics and redefined the idea of literature. Taught in English; some readings in Russian for qualified students. 
3042:Examines "The Absurd" in Russian literature and culture as it developed from 19th century to the present. Through works by important Russian writers and representative films students encounter facets of "The Russian Absurd" viewed as literary, cultural, and social phenomena. Taught in English; some readings in Russian for qualified students. 
3043:As Russia became a laboratory for sociopolitical experiments of global significance, its culture reflected on the most spectacular of its aspirations and failures. Course surveys 20th-century literary, musical and cinematic artifacts that emerged to affect the world profoundly. Taught in English; some readings in Russian for qualified students. 
3044:An introduction to the Russian short story. The readings include works from the 17th century to the present. Taught in English; some readings in Russian for qualified students. 
3045:Readings and lecture on 19th-century Russian poetry. Taught in English; some readings in Russian for qualified students. 
3046:Survey of Russian drama as a literary and theatrical phenomenon from the end of the 18th to the beginning of the 20th century. Taught in English; some readings in Russian for qualified students. 
3047:Study of major works of Dostoevsky and a survey of contemporary authors and literary trends relevant to his creative career. Taught in English; some readings in Russian for qualified students. 
3048:Study of major works of Chekhov and survey of contemporary authors and literary trends relevant to his creative career. Taught in English; some readings in Russian for qualified students. 
3049:Study of major works of Mikhail Bulgakov, including Master and Margarita, and a survey of contemporary Russian history and culture relevant to his creative career. Taught in English; some readings in Russian for qualified students. 
3050:Literary representations of Russian revolutionaries and terrorists in the 19th and early 20th centuries. Readings by Dostoevsky, Chernyshevsky, Bely, Joseph Conrad, and by some of the terrorists themselves. Taught in English; some readings in Russian for qualified students. 
3051:Exploration of Vladimir Nabokov's prose fiction written in Germany and America. Emphasis placed on the primary texts, but some secondary readings included. Movies based on Nabokov's novels will be viewed as well. Readings in Russian for majors, in English for nonmajors. 
3052:Study of the major works of Tolstoy and a survey of contemporary authors and literary trends relevant to his creative career. Taught in English; some readings in Russian for qualified students. 
3053:A study of Russian women's writing after World War II, including both fictional and propagandistic works analyzed in their sociopolitical context. Serves as an introduction to Russian women's studies. Taught in English; some readings in Russian for qualified students. 
3054:Study of topics in Russian literature and culture not currently covered in any other course. The specific topic will be announced in advance. Taught in English. Some readings in Russian for qualified students. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
3055:Module 1. Fifth-year Russian, intended to expand and master the knowledge of the language necessary for understanding deep ongoing changes in different spheres of Russian society. for students lacking the prerequisites. 
3056:Module 2. Fifth-year Russian, intended to expand and master the knowledge of the language necessary for understanding deep ongoing changes in different spheres of Russian society. for students lacking the prerequisites. 
3057:Fifth-year Russian, intended to expand knowledge of the language necessary for understanding social changes that are taking place in Russian society, in literature, art, culture, and everyday human mentality. students lacking the prerequisite. 
3058:RUSS 513 is not a prerequisite. Fifth-year Russian, continuing with the theme of RUSS 513 offered in the fall semester. students lacking the prerequisite. 
3059:Examines Russian from the perspective of linguistic analysis. How do sounds, words, and sentences pattern in Russian? How do these compare with patterns in other languages? Also considers the influence of evidence from Russian on the development of linguistic theory. instructor for students lacking the prerequisite. 
3060:Russian language and culture majors only. Researching and writing of an honors thesis on an agreed-upon topic not covered by scheduled courses, under the direction of departmental advisors. 
3061:Russian language and culture majors only. Researching and writing of an honors thesis on an agreed-upon topic not covered by scheduled courses, under the direction of departmental advisors. 
3062:Pronunciation, structure of the language, and readings in modern Serbian and Croatian language. 
3063:Pronunciation, structure of the language, and readings in modern Serbian and Croatian language, continued. 
3064:Continuation of the proficiency-based instruction begun in Elementary Serbian and Croatian language. 
3065:Continuation of the proficiency-based instruction begun in Elementary Serbian and Croatian language, continued. 
3066:Advanced readings and discussion in Serbian and Croatian language on humanities and social science topics. 
3067:Advanced readings and discussion in Serbian and Croatian language on humanities and social science topics, continued. 
3068:Introduction to Serbian and Croatian literature with an emphasis on 19th- and 20th-century prose. Taught in English. Some readings in Serbian and Croatian for qualified students. 
3069:Study of topics in Serbian, Croatian, and other South Slavic literatures and cultures not currently covered in any other course. The specific topic will be announced in advance. Taught in English; some foreign language readings for qualified students. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
3070:All human beings inhabit a physical body, with inherent oppositions of inside/outside, up/down, and left/right. This course examines bodily experience as the wellspring of meaning. 
3071:Explores and reflects on the experience and significance of being a doctor in Russia and the United States, analyzing "doctors' stories" presented in fiction, nonfiction, film, and other media. 
3072:Terror was used as a political weapon in 19th-century Russia. This seminar introduces the terrorists through their own writings and fictional representations in novels by Fyodor Dostoevsky and Joseph Conrad. 
3073:Readings for this seminar include children's wartime diaries, adult memoirs of child-survivors, and fiction from Eastern Europe and east Asia. Focused on World War II, but with attention to present-day conflicts. 
3074:This course examines the ways in which modern European and American fiction, essays, and film construct representations of madness. 
3075:An introduction to the region, this course examines the role of gender in central and east European literature from the end of the 19th century to contemporary times. Course materials include novels, films, historical readings, and essays. Readings and class discussions in English. 
3076:Special topics course. Content will vary each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
3077:Special topics course. Content will vary each semester. 
3078:Introduction to the essentials of Slavic cultures, including religion, literature, history, art, cinema, folklore, geography, and music. Course materials include films, slides, and recordings. Lectures and readings in English. 
3079:The cultural diversity of Eastern Europe is examined through the emergence of competing religions, newly formed literary languages, and political controversies surrounding the birth of new languages and nations. All readings in English. 
3080:Childhood and adolescence as portrayed in both fictional and autobiographical form by 19th- and 20th-century Russian, Polish, Czech, and other East European writers, including Tolstoy, Dostoevsky, Nabokov, I. B. Singer, Schulz, Milosz. Lectures and readings in English. 
3081:Childhood and adolescence as portrayed in both fictional and autobiographical form by 19th- and 20th-century Russian, Polish, Czech, and other East European writers, including Tolstoy, Dostoevsky, Nabokov, I. B. Singer, Schulz, Milosz. Lectures and readings in English. 
3082:Examines clash between 20th-century writers and the state in countries where a single government or party used an exclusive ideology as justification for interference in cultural and literary affairs. Discussions and texts in English. 
3083:A critical look at varieties of cinematic representation and memorialization of the Holocaust, from those countries of Europe where it mostly took place. Taught in English. All films in (or subtitled in) English. 
3084:Permission of the instructor. Directed readings in a Slavic language other than Russian on topics in literature and linguistics not normally covered in scheduled courses. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
3085:This course focuses on language, identity, and nationalism in contemporary societies, with special emphasis on Europe, Africa, Asia, and the United States. 
3086:Explores the fictional representation of Jewish life in Russia and Poland by Russian, Polish, and Jewish authors from the 19th century to the present. Taught in English; some foreign language readings for qualified students. 
3087:Literary representation in fiction, poetry, memoirs, and other genres of the mass annihilation and terror in Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union under the Nazi and Communist regimes. Taught in English; some foreign language readings for qualified students. 
3088:This course examines the roles of language policy and linguistic controversies in determining national identity and fueling political polarization. It focuses primarily on Western and Eastern Europe and Central Asia. 
3089:Fictional and autobiographical expressions of the Slavic and East European immigrant experience in the 20th century. Readings include Russian, Polish, Jewish, and Czech authors from early 1900s to present. Taught in English; some foreign language readings for qualified students. 
3090:A comparative survey of the major trends in 20th-century Russian and Polish dramaturgy and theatrical production, with attention to aesthetic, professional, and political connections between the two. Taught in English; some foreign language readings for qualified students. 
3091:Comparative study of topics in non-Russian Slavic literatures and culture not covered in any other course. Specific topics will vary and will be announced in advance. Taught in English; some foreign language readings for qualified students. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
3092:Permission of the instructor. Reading knowledge of a language other than English recommended. Starting from the proposition that cultural literacy would be impossible without reliance on translations, this course addresses fundamental issues in the practice, art, and politics of literary translation. 
3093:Survey of 20th-century Slavic literary criticism. Russian formalists, Bakhtin and his circle, Czech structuralists, Soviet semiotics. Emphasis on influence of Slavic criticism on development of Western literary criticism. 
3094:Slavic and East European languages and cultures majors only. Research and writing of an honors thesis on an agreed-upon topic not covered by scheduled courses, under the direction of departmental advisors. 
3095:Slavic and East European languages and cultures majors only. Research and writing of an honors thesis on an agreed-upon topic not covered by scheduled courses, under the direction of departmental advisors. 
3096:This seminar examines how politics and economics condition different countries' path towards and experience with foreign aid, foreign investment, and corruption. In doing so, the course will examine the effect of political conditions on economic outcomes and the effect of economic conditions on political outcomes. 
3097:Special topics course. Content will vary each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
3098:Special topics course. Content will vary each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
3099:Permission of the department. This course gives credit to the Great Decisions coordinating committee for organizing the eight lectures in GLBL 381. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 3 total credits. 3 total completions. 
3100:Internship in a sponsoring organization whose work or mission is meaningfully connected to a global studies topic. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 3 total credits. 3 total completions. 
3101:Permission of the instructor. Reading and research on special topics in global studies. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
3102:Survey of international social, political, and cultural patterns in selected societies of Africa, Asia, America, and Europe, stressing comparative analysis of conflicts and change in different historical contexts. LAC recitation sections offered in French, German, and Spanish. 
3103:This academic course is mandatory for Phillips Ambassadors. 
3104:-21 Credits. An interdisciplinary approach to the study of the background, current status, and future prospects for one of a series of global issues such as the nuclear age, the environment, technological transition. 
3105:Eight evening guest lectures, with a discussion session after each, on eight issues in current foreign policy. May be repeated for credit. Students may not receive credit for both GLBL 381 and POLI 381. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 3 total credits. 3 total completions. 
3106:This class combines fieldwork, oral history, and service learning in a course that examines concepts of globalization, migration, and transnationalism, and their intersections with anthropological theory and practice. 
3107:This course looks at race as a theory and practice as it has been constructed in academic disciplines, popular culture, and social struggle. 
3108:Topics vary from semester to semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
3109:This course links the Great Decisions lecture series with readings and analyses of international relations. Its purpose is to provide the students on the Great Decisions coordinating committee with a practical and intellectual engagement with United States foreign policy and global issues. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 3 total completions. 
3110:This course aims to develop a critical perspective on development -- understood as a cultural logic and a discreet set of practices and policies -- so that we can better contribute to positive social change. Through course material and service learning, students develop an understanding of the relationship between development projects and emancipatory frameworks. 
3111:This course aims to develop a critical perspective on development -- understood as a cultural logic and a discreet set of practices and policies -- so that we can better contribute to positive social change. Through course material and service learning, students develop an understanding of the relationship between development projects and emancipatory frameworks. 
3112:Political, economic dynamics of selected countries in Asia, Latin America, Caribbean, and Africa. 
3113:Transitions to liberal democratic political structures in Latin America, Asia, Africa, and the former Soviet bloc. 
3114:Examines dominant, alternative, and emergent narratives of change and the future from around the world. Takes as a premise that we live in a period of multidimensional crises characterized by uncertainty and conflict about how to pursue sustainable economic, ecological, political, social, and cultural projects. 
3115:Surveys major issues in the interdisciplinary study of globalization and the lives of children. Course themes include children's rights, migration, child labor, exploitation, transnational adoption, inequality, the growth of consumerism and consumption, and children in crisis and conflict situations. 
3116:This course will investigate how nongovernmental organizations emerge, how they structure their organizations, how they function, and how they influence public policy. 
3117:This course is an introduction to the history and contemporary politics of the post-Soviet region and explores topics of religious, ethnic, and identity politics; international influences; and civil society and social movements. 
3118:This course is an introduction to the history and contemporary politics of the post-Soviet region and explores topics of religious, ethnic, and identity politics; international influences; and civil society and social movements. 
3119:This course provides students with an understanding of the origins and comparative performance of a range of international healthcare systems. 
3120:This course provides students with an understanding of the origins and comparative performance of a range of international healthcare systems. 
3121:This course is an introduction of the history, politics, and societies of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan. The class explores the foundations and conditions of change in the modern history of these societies and investigates how these issues influence contemporary politics. 
3122:This course is an APPLES service-learning course whose goal is to integrate real-world experience working with development-oriented organizations, theoretical discussions about the origins and evolution of development thinking, and exposure to the challenges facing practitioners of development, in some of its many substantive and geographical contexts. 
3123:This course explores some of the relationships between sports and globalization and will delve into sports as an important social and cultural practice within larger social, cultural, and political forces shaping studies of globalization. 
3124:This course explores some of the relationships between sports and globalization and will delve into sports as an important social and cultural practice within larger social, cultural, and political forces shaping studies of globalization. 
3125:This course explores the history, objectives, and manifestations of global social movements. 
3126:This class explores the moral, economic, political, and cultural dimensions of movements across international borders. 
3127:By deliberately juxtaposing questions of global development with an investigation of approaches in community organizing locally-- both through course material and service-learning assignments--the course encourages students to develop a more critical understanding of the relationship between development projects and emancipatory frameworks. 
3128:Current topics in international and area studies. Topics vary by semester. 
3129:A forum for exploring conceptual and practical problems related to the emergence of a global human rights regime after World War II. The course analyzes relevant arguments, and students will consider whether it is possible to construct a coherent, workable, universally accepted system for articulating and enforcing human rights norms. 
3130:This seminar examines the political, economic and intellectual developments that led to the emergence of human rights as a global phenomenon historically and in the current phase of globalization. Also engages with debates concerning the role of human rights as an ethical philosophy in thinking through global issues. 
3131:Permission of the instructor. Preparation for writing the honors thesis. 
3132:Permission of the instructor. Completion of the honors thesis and an oral examination of the thesis. 
3133:This course explores the problem of revolutionary upheaval in Latin American history, from the revolutionary wars of the independence era (1810-1825) to revolutionary episodes of the 20th century. 
3134:This course will familiarize students with the background of this ongoing conflict. It will begin with the growth of political Zionism in Europe, continue through early Zionist settlement, the United Nations partition and resulting war, and the history of the conflict through the present. 
3135:This course examines the experiences of American writers who traveled and lived in European cities during the era between 1830 and 1930 with the goal of developing historical insights into these writers' fascination with famous European cities and the experience of travel. 
3136:In this course, students will learn about the dominant interpretations of the French Revolution, elaborated over the course of the 20th century, and they will come to appreciate and criticize the work of those historians who have interpreted the evidence from the French Revolution over the past 60 years. 
3137:This seminar will read and discuss powerful examples of literature (poetry, memoirs, and novels) produced during and after World War I that sought to come to terms with the trauma of this cataclysmic event in European history, the first experience of total war fought by modern, industrialized nations. 
3138:This course is organized around reading about and discussing the theme of history, memory, and popular culture in the post--Civil War South. 
3139:Oral history is "history from the ground up," learning about the past from the people who lived it. In this seminar, students will do original research in oral history and contribute these true-life stories to a trilogy of theatrical plays concerning agriculture, labor, women, race, and political protest. 
3140:The course will examine some of the principal themes that have informed Southeast Asian history and continue to shape the area today. Students will focus on the relationship between material forcesenvironmental and economic primarilyas well as social, political, and cultural developments. 
3141:This seminar will explore the ways people have identified themselves in relation to specific places, nation-states, and foreign "others." Examples may include the Kurdish nationalists, Islamist political parties, the Eritrean independence movement, and the Basque separatists. 
3142:Water has played pivotal roles in the histories, societies, and politics of Middle Eastern peoples. This course will survey the role of water in religious and cultural practices, technological innovations that facilitate agriculture, public health issues arising from water-borne diseases, and the contribution of water scarcity to cross-border political conflicts. 
3143:Water has played pivotal roles in the histories, societies, and politics of Middle Eastern peoples. This course will survey the role of water in religious and cultural practices, technological innovations that facilitate agriculture, public health issues arising from water-borne diseases, and the contribution of water scarcity to cross-border political conflicts. 
3144:Examines Mikhail Gorbachev and the astonishing transformations that occurred while he governed the Soviet Union between 1985 and 1991. Students will explore post-Soviet Russia's efforts at negotiating a new set of relations with the rest of the world and how Russia continues to shape our own destiny. 
3145:This course examines evolving ideas about love in Europe and America from ancient times to the present. It draws on philosophical and religious texts as well as literature, film, and music to discuss how personal identities and relationships have been shaped by cultural beliefs about the meaning of human love. 
3146:This course will examine major films in Europe and America from 1908 to 1968 in terms of how they shaped the medium and reflected important social trends. 
3147:In this seminar, through systematic discussion and dialogue, students will explore dreams, visions, and apparitions in American history from the early years of colonial contact to the emergence of modern psychology around 1900. 
3148:Our homes, our workplaces, our towns, our natural areas-all are products of history, shaped by people, rich with meaning and full of surprises. Using Chapel Hill as our living laboratory, we will explore new ways of understanding the past and how it shapes the world we live in now. 
3149:The course examines 20th-century European history through the lenses of women's autobiographical writings. It explores women's voices from different generational, social, and national backgrounds and asks what formed their memories. 
3150:The course examines 20th-century European history through the lenses of women's autobiographical writings. It explores women's voices from different generational, social, and national backgrounds and asks what formed their memories. 
3151:Beginning with a close reading of Wolfgang Schivelbusch's The Railway Journey: The Industrialization of Time and Space in the 19th Century, this course will examine how railway travel impacted American and European culture. 
3152:Through a study of autobiographical texts, contemporary accounts, objects, architecture and later representations in scholarly works, films and novels, we will undertake a thematic investigation of the Mughal Empire (1526-1858), focusing on the period of the first six Mughal rulers of India. 
3153:This course will explore intersections of faith and violence in the Christian tradition from the period from 300 to 1300. It will examine mainstream Christian attitudes toward non-Christians (pagans, Jews, Muslims) and nonorthodox groups (heretics). 
3154:This seminar will examine one of the most challenging topics in American and Latin American history: how to understand the conquest (la conquista) of Latin America by the Spaniards after the arrival of Columbus after 1492. 
3155:This seminar will introduce students to practices of critical analysis that inform academic work in all the core humanistic disciplines: how do we ask analytical questions about texts, artwork, and other cultural artifacts that come down to us from the past or circulate in our own culture? 
3156:We will employ coming of age autobiographies to explore developments in the US during the 20th century. In these autobiographies the authors focus primarily on the periods of childhood and adolescence into young adulthood. We will consider many issues including: race, racism, immigration, religion, social class, and gender. 
3157:In ghettos and hiding places during the Holocaust, European Jews and other victims of Nazism recorded their experiences in diaries and other chronicles. Students will read diaries and memoirs as well as listen to testimonies to understand Holocaust history through life narratives, exploring tensions between history and memory. 
3158:Explores the distinctive features of microhistorical approaches to the past and the attractions of microhistory for the practicing historian. Students will read a rich sampling of recent work (much of it featuring monsters, murder, and mayhem) and try their hand at writing their own microhistories. 
3159:This is a seminar about reading so as to learn as much as we can from individuals expressing the inexpressible. It asks what (if anything) only camp survivors can tell us about the experience and what we can learn by exploring the effects of this experience on survivors. 
3160:Special topics course. Content will vary each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
3161:Special topics course. Content will vary each semester. 
3162:A topical survey of the ancient world, especially the civilization of the Near East, Greece, and Rome. 
3163:A survey of Western Europe and the Mediterranean World, 300-1500. 
3164:An introductory-level survey of early medieval political, cultural, religious and social history between ca.500 and ca.1050 with a geographical focus on Europe. This course also considers eastern Christianity and Islam, as well as parts of Asia, for comparison. Throughout the course students will closely analyze the evidence for the period. 
3165:An interdisciplinary introduction to Native American history and studies. The course uses history, literature, art, and cultural studies to study the Native American experience. 
3166:A survey of American sport history, from the colonial era to the present. Course will explore how sports have reflected larger trends in American life and analyze the different ways sports have influenced American history and shaped the world we occupy today. 
3167:Surveys religious thought and practice in the United States and Canada from the colonial era to the present day. Themes include continuities and changes in expressing ancient faiths; the relationship between religion and politics; the intersection of theology with everyday life; and evolving notions of religious truth and toleration. 
3168:Explores the history of the United States through films made about various historical eras. For each film, the instructor will lecture on the time period(s), the class will read relevant primary and secondary sources, and then the class will watch and discuss the film. 
3169:Explores the relationship between popular music and major developments in 20th-century America. The course's overarching focus is how popular music has simultaneously unified and divided the nation. 
3170:A survey of various aspects of American development during the colonial, revolutionary, and national periods, with stress upon major themes and interpretations. 
3171:A survey of various aspects of American development during a century of rapid industrial, social, political, and international change, with stress upon major themes and interpretations. 
3172:An overview of major developments in sub-Saharan African history since the late 19th century, focusing on colonialism, nationalism and decolonization, social change, and current issues, and drawing upon fiction, film, and primary sources. 
3173:The history of Southeast Asia from prehistory to "high imperialism." Long- term political, economic, social, and religious developments, including Indianization, the impact of China, and the first contacts with Europeans. 
3174:Comparative colonialism, nationalism, revolution, and independence movements. Topics include Indonesia and the Dutch, Indochina under French rule, United States involvement in the Philippines and Vietnam, communist and peasant movements, Cambodian revolution. 
3175:Chinese history from its beginnings to the present, organized around the central theme of how the identity of China and 'Chineseness' was created. 
3176:Comparative and interdisciplinary introduction to China and Japan in the 19th and 20th centuries, focusing on impact of the West, nation building, industrialization, and evolution of mass society. 
3177:An introduction to major political, religious, social, and cultural events from 3500 BCE to 1750 CE with a focus on Hindu, Muslim, and Buddhist groups before British colonial rule. 
3178:This course is an introduction to modern India, Pakistan, and Bangladesh. We will investigate major political, social, economic, and cultural issues from 1750 to the present. 
3179:This course provides an introduction to the history of the Islamic world from the time of the Prophet Muhammad to the present day. It seeks to expose students to key themes, individuals, and movements that have represented Islamic thought and practice, and enable students to engage directly with intra-Islamic debates. 
3180:A broad, comprehensive, and interdisciplinary introduction to the traditional civilization of the Muslim world. Students may not receive credit for both HIST 138/ASIA 138 and ASIA 180/RELI 180. 
3181:A broad interdisciplinary survey of the later Islamic empires since the 15th century and their successor societies in the modern Muslim world. Students may not receive credit for both ASIA 139/HIST 139 and ASIA 181/RELI 181 
3182:This introduction to the contemporary world examines the Cold War and its international aftermath, decolonization, national development across a variety of cases, and trends in the global economy. 
3183:Social and economic development under colonial rule, especially in Mexico and Peru. 
3184:A general introduction to Latin American society, culture, politics, and economics from a historical perspective. Focus will be on the events of the past two centuries. 
3185:This course will survey the history of women, gender relations, and notions of sex difference in the United States from the colonial era to present times, with a special emphasis on women's varied experiences and expectations across divisions of class, race, and region. Key themes will include work, politics, citizenship, reproduction, sociability, and sexuality. 
3186:European history from Greek antiquity to the mid-17th century. 
3187:European history from the middle of the 17th century to the present. 
3188:This class surveys the history of the Jews from ancient to modern times. It focuses on the development of Jewish religion, culture identity, and politics in Jewish communities in the Western, Atlantic and Middle Eastern Worlds. It also explores the development of antisemitism and anti-Jewish violence. 
3189:Explores the interplay between Britain's domestic history and her European, transatlantic, and wider global engagements from the Glorious Revolution through the present day. Focuses on social and economic thought, Parliament, London's urban and class structures, religious and ethnic strife, racial and gender difference, and literary, cinematic, and artistic expression. 
3190:Intellectual and social structures, dynamics of social and political change, principles of authority, and bases of revolution from the Reformation to the French Revolutionary and Napoleonic period. 
3191:A critical overview of 20th-century European history, with particular attention to the constant ethnic, religious, social, economic, and cultural struggles (including Holocaust, Cold War) in various subunits of the old continent. 
3192:Between 862 and 1861 Russia expanded from agrarian settlements into Europe's most formidable empire. Subjugated by Mongols in 1240, it recovered and absorbed territories from Poland to Alaska. Conquest came on the backs of an enserfed peasantry, whose emancipation began the next chapter in Russia's history. 
3193:This course surveys fundamental issues affecting the Russian/ Soviet/post-Soviet multinational empire in the last century and a half, emphasizing regime failures, revolutions, wars, and ethnic challenges. 
3194:Provides an understanding of significant contemporary developments in Central Asia--9/11, the Taliban, oil and gas geopolitics, Communism and its collapse, the rise of China, Islamism, and global terrorism--through an analysis of themes in the region's history, with a focus on the 19th and 20th centuries. 
3195:This course explores political, social, and cultural history from the Napoleonic Wars through the South African War. Surveys the history of the United Kingdom in the context of Britain's imperial expansion, including slavery, reform, women's suffrage, social movements, and Victorian wealth and poverty. 
3196:This course explores political, social, and cultural history from 1900 to the present: the two world wars, the declining empire, the extension of parliamentary democracy, the new welfare state, and a deeply diverse racial, ethnic, and religious society where social and economic differences remain. Who is British? 
3197:The American occupation of Afghanistan after 9/11/2001, the longest war in United States history, continues a long pattern of great empires attempting to control the country. This course asks why it has been challenging for Afghanistan's rulers, both foreign and domestic, to build a centralized state in an historically decentralized society. 
3198:Examines selected themes in the history of Africa, Asia, and/or the Middle East. Theme(s) chosen by the instructor. Possible subjects: colonialism, resistance movements, religion, gender, economic transformations. 
3199:Examines selected themes in the history of Latin America. Theme(s) chosen by the instructor. Possible subjects: indigenous societies, colonialism, religion, the family, economic transformations. 
3200:Examines selected themes in the history of Russia, Eurasia, and/or Eastern Europe. Theme(s) chosen by the instructor. Possible subjects: imperialism, revolution, the Soviet Union, war and society. . 
3201:Examines selected themes in the history of Europe from ancient to early modern times. Theme(s) chosen by the instructor. Possible subjects: legacies of antiquity, philosophy and religion, feudal society, gender, and power. 
3202:Examines selected themes in the history of modern Europe. Theme(s) chosen by the instructor. Possible subjects: effects of industrialism, nationalism, history of ideas, consumer society, modern revolutions, imperialism. 
3203:Examines selected themes in American history. Theme(s) chosen by the instructor. Possible subjects: colonial diversity, emerging nation, intellectual traditions, labor and capitalism, slavery and race relations, markets and political power, war and society. 
3204:Subject matter will vary with instructor but will focus on some particular topic or historical approach. Course description available from the departmental office. Closed to graduate students. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
3205:This course will examine how collective identities have been created, codified, and enforced; and will explore possibilities for building bridges between groups in order to resolve conflicts. 
3206:This course will examine the relationship between Asia, Africa, the Middle East, Latin America, and the making of the modern world in the 20th century. 
3207:The history of European international politics from the outbreak of the Thirty Years War to the Congress of Vienna. Considers the sources of national power, the reasons for war, and the changing nature of diplomacy. 
3208:The history of international politics from the fall of Napoleon to the end of the Second World War, with special attention to European nationalism, imperialism, the emergence of non-European great powers, the reasons for war, and the search for peace. 
3209:A survey of the Cold War from its origins in the aftermath of the Second World War to its conclusion in the late 1980s. Focuses on the geopolitical, military, ideological, and economic aspects of the global superpower conflict. 
3210:Survey of international social, political, and cultural patterns in selected societies of Africa, Asia, America, and Europe, stressing comparative analysis of conflicts and change in different historical contexts. LAC recitation sections offered in French, German, and Spanish. 
3211:The influence of sea power on international affairs will be surveyed from ancient times to the present. Emphasis on United States naval history and its interaction with diplomacy, economics, and technology. 
3212:Examines air power theory and practice from 1914 to the present. Focuses on the application of air power as an instrument of war and the effectiveness of that application. 
3213:Course uses the history of the modern Olympic Games (1896-present) to explore both global sport and the history of international relations. Topics include sport and the Cold War; terrorism;human rights; the anti-apartheid movement; and issues of race, class, gender, disability; and the question of who is a "real" athlete. 
3214:A survey of Greek history and culture from the Bronze Age to the Hellenistic period. 
3215:Origins to the first two centuries CE. Focuses upon Rome's growth as a world power and the shift from republican government to autocracy. 
3216:This course examines the formation of Christian Europe and its relationship with the wider world through the lens of European expansionism. 
3217:This course explores the uses of history and historical perspectives for public policy. Students will learn how historical processes have shaped today's public policies and examine how the origins and development of a policy can inform current policy decisions. 
3218:Covers the histories of American Indians east of the Mississippi River and before 1840. The approach is ethnohistorical. 
3219:Deals with the histories of Native Americans living west of the Mississippi River. It begins in the pre-Columbian past and extends to the end of the 19th century. 
3220:This course introduces students to a tribally specific body of knowledge. The tribal focus of the course and the instructor change from term to term. 
3221:This course deals with the political, economic, social, and cultural issues important to 20th-century Native Americans as they attempt to preserve tribalism in the modern world. 
3222:Does sex have a history? This course argues that it does. Exploring American history from the earliest encounters of Indians, Europeans, and Africans through the aftermath of the sexual revolution, we will consider diverse perspectives, important dynamics of change, and surprising ways in which the past informs our present--and our selves. 
3223:A survey of modern religion in the United States and Canada. Themes include religious pluralism; new religious movements, immigrant faiths; the relationship between religion and urban life, industrialization, and new science; religion and foreign affairs; questions of church and state; and the conflict between secular modernity and religious fundamentalism. 
3224:History of Mexico seen through four moments of change: conquest, independence, 19th-century reforms, and 20th-century revolution. This course is an introductory survey for students who want to know more about Mexico, its place in Latin America, and its relations with the United States. 
3225:A comparative examination of the historical experiences of Latinos in the United States, from the 19th century to the present, drawing on experiences of Mexican Americans, Puerto Ricans, Dominicans, and Central Americans. Special emphasis on the events, people, and ideas that have made distinctive contributions. 
3226:This course examines the history of United States involvement in Latin America and the Caribbean. Lectures will cover two centuries of United States intervention, from the wars of the 19th century to the covert CIA operations of the Cold War and the more recent wars on drugs and terror. 
3227:This course traces changing relationships between the United States and sub-Saharan Africa from the 17th century to the present. Topics include the trans-Atlantic slave trade, back-to-Africa movements and the colonization of Liberia by African Americans, United States policies toward decolonizing and postcolonial African countries, and contemporary links between Africa and America. 
3228:This course traces changing relationships between the United States and sub-Saharan Africa from the 17th century to the present. Topics include the trans-Atlantic slave trade, back-to-Africa movements and the colonization of Liberia by African Americans, United States policies toward decolonizing and postcolonial African countries, and contemporary links between Africa and America. 
3229:This course examines the historical evolution of the United States presidency and its role in government and society. The class is especially concerned with the ways that the office and its occupants have been shaped by the aspirations of the American people and the global challenges of the modern era. 
3230:This is both a wide-ranging and detailed course that looks at the origins, the evolution, and the termination of the Cold War from 1945 to 1989/90. It also considers the "New Cold War" with Russia that developed in 2014. The course is based on an international and multinational perspective. 
3231:Foreign Relations in the 20th and 21st Centuries. 3 Credits. This is both a wide-ranging and detailed lecture course which looks at the rise of the U.S. to world power status and the evolution of U.S. foreign relations from the late 19th century to the very present. The course is based on a multinational and global perspective. 
3232:This course focuses on Japan's early modern period (1600-1868) and explores the historicism of the artist Hon'ami Koetsu; the status system and village life; the writings of Matsuo Basho; dramatic culture and the life of the city; and the interplay between sex, gender, and commerce. 
3233:An intermediate survey of global Christianity from the late Middle Ages to the present day that traces evolving theology and worship; the role of religion in the politics of empire; modern challenges to traditional religion; and the international expansion of the faith. 
3234:A critical examination of the significance of the Thirty Years' War for 17th- century Europe's social, religious, military, and geopolitical history. The representation of the conflict in art and literature also receives attention. 
3235:This course explores the history of Modern Germany, by focusing on Imperial Germany, the Weimar Republic and the Third Reich. We will study continuities and changes in politics, society, and culture and examine the lasting impact of World War I, World War II and the Holocaust. 
3236:This seminar interrogates the relationship between art and political power in the 15th through 17th centuries, assessing the nature of visual propaganda and art as an effective means of early modern communication, with special emphasis on gendered conceptions of power. 
3237:This seminar interrogates the relationship between art and political power in the 15th through 17th centuries, assessing the nature of visual propaganda and art as an effective means of early modern communication, with special emphasis on gendered conceptions of power. 
3238:A critical examination, from the Renaissance to the Napoleonic period, of the changes in European land and naval warfare and their impact on society and government. 
3239:From agriculture to industry, Europe's march to industrialization. Survey from the medieval manor through revival of trade, rise of towns, credit and capitalism, overseas expansion and mercantilism to the Industrial Revolution. 
3240:Three events shaped contemporary France: collaboration and resistance in occupied France; the Algerian War; and the political, cultural, and social movements in the late 1960s and 1970s. This class will examine these events, how they are remembered and given meaning, and their role in making the France we know today. 
3241:The interdisciplinary, team-taught seminar will explore cultural, historical, and political issues of contemporary Germany and analyze German developments from the postwar period to the present. Readings and discussions in English. 
3242:This course focuses on the history of modern Italy and examines changes in political, social, economic structures. Students will engage in the search for an "Italian identity." Topics will include unification, World War I and II, Italian fascism, the postwar Italian Republic, the Mafia, terrorism, popular culture, and Silvio Berlusconi. 
3243:This course examines and compares the situation of women in politics, the work force, society and family from the French Revolution to the new women's movement in the 1970s with a focus on Britain, France and Germany. One major theme is the history of the struggle for women's emancipation. 
3244:A study in the emergence of nations of Eastern Europe, their internal development, mutual conflicts, and struggle for independence. 
3245:Third Republic France was riven with conflict. This course examines these conflicts, how the men and women of France and its colonies gave them meaning, and how we in turn can interpret these struggles to develop our understanding of the longest-lived republic in French history (1870-1940). 
3246:Anti-Semitism; the Jews of Europe; the Hitler dictatorship; evolution of Nazi Jewish policy from persecution to the Final Solution; Jewish response; collaborators, bystanders, and rescuers; aftermath. 
3247:The course explores the dramatic historical changes between 1750 to 1850 and their intersection with and reflection in arts, literature, and music in a trans-Atlantic perspective. 
3248:Explores the history, culture, and politics of London from the decade before the First World War, through the "Swinging" 1960s, to the recent Olympics fever. Surveys the architecture, cultural institutions and the arts, against the background of the city's changing racial, ethnic, religious, and socio-economic composition. 
3249:This survey examines Japanese history from early times to the Tokugawa settlement of 1603. We will consider the archaeology of prehistoric Japan; the first great capitals at Nara and Heian; the rise of the samurai; and the tenuous medieval balance of power between the court, warrior government, and Buddhist institutions. 
3250:Provides students with a critical understanding of the political, economic, and social dynamics of contemporary South Asia. Themes explored include the development (or lack of) democratic structures, continuing relevance of caste and religion, emergence of right wing movements, contesting representations of the past, and the prospects and challenges confronting the region. 
3251:Approaches the history of the Ottoman Empire from a world historical perspective. Situates the Ottoman imperial experience in relation to Muslim, Mongolian, and Byzantine traditions. Discusses the early modern and modern transformation of the Ottoman Empire and its legacy for contemporary Eastern Europe, the Middle East, and North Africa. 
3252:History of Iraq from ancient times to the present. 
3253:History of Iraq from ancient times to the present. 
3254:This course introduces students to the recent history of the Middle East, including a comparison of the Middle East to the United States. 
3255:Explores the conflict over Palestine during the last 100 years. Surveys the development of competing nationalisms, the contest for resources and political control that led to the partition of the region, the war that established a Jewish state, and the subsequent struggles between conflicting groups for land and independence. 
3256:Slavery in select African communities, economic and political foundations of the trans-Atlantic slave trade, and its impact on African and New World societies. 
3257:Beginning with the discovery of gold and diamonds in the mid-19th century and reaching to the present, this course considers colonialism, industrialization, social change, and political protest in South Africa, with particular attention to the rise, fall, and legacies of apartheid. 
3258:Examines the experiences of women and gender relations in Latin American societies from pre-Columbian times to the present, providing a new perspective on the region's historical development. 
3259:An examination of the origins of the Pacific War, the course of this bitter and momentous conflict, and its complex legacy for both Asia and the United States. 
3260:This course explores the evolution of China as a geopolitical entity from global perspectives, 1350 to the present. 
3261:This course introduces undergraduates to significant themes of the Ming (1368-1644) and Qing (1644-1911) dynasties. Topics include family, religion, art, fiscal change, trade networks, conquest, emperorship, Manchu ethnicity, the examination system and book culture, legal codes, gender, the Taiping Rebellion, and the Boxer Uprising, among others. No prior coursework required. 
3262:China today is poised to become the next world superpower. What is the story of its modern transformation? This lecture course will introduce undergraduates to the history of 20th-century China, through a thematic approach to its culture, politics, and society. No prior coursework required. 
3263:Covering the period from 1600 to 1900, this course examines the causes and impact of the Meiji Restoration of 1868, which marked the start of modern Japan. 
3264:Topics include the Japanese Empire, the road to the Pacific War, defeat, the Allied occupation, Japan's recovery from war, and development into a democracy and the world's second largest economy. 
3265:This course will explore how Americans in the 1970s responded to crises, challenges, and opportunities, and how they ultimately remade ideas of identity, citizenship, work, family, and culture. 
3266:Dialogues between historiographic and fictional treatments of important historical problems. Explores works of history and literature to determine how different genres of writing give meaning to the past. 
3267:This course explains how and why certain films helped shape the medium even as they reflected broader aspects of historical change. Beginning with the development of narrative film in 1908, the course looks at those nationally specific genres that had repercussions beyond national borders, ending in about 1968. 
3268:This course explains how and why certain films helped shape the medium even as they reflected broader aspects of historical change. Beginning with the development of narrative film in 1908, the course looks at those nationally specific genres that had repercussions beyond national borders, ending in about 1968. 
3269:The Renaissance (1300-1600) is known as a time of great artistic, scientific, and political renewal. But did Jews, the only religious minority in Europe, get an opportunity to benefit from and participate in that progress? This class studies the history of the Jews at a time of great cultural change. 
3270:This course focuses on the period in French history between the ascendancy of absolute monarchy in the middle of the 17th century and the collapse of absolutism at the onset of the French Revolution. 
3271:The French Revolution was a source of much that the modern world recognizes as its own: nationalism, human rights, class conflict, ideology, communism, conservatism, show trials, citizen armies, terrorism, and the concept of revolution itself. This course probes issues that underlie the continuing relevance of the French Revolution today. 
3272:The migration of Jewish populations from small towns to large cities in Eastern Europe altered notions of Jewish community, space, cultures, and identities. This course will explore the roles of ghetto and shtetl in both history and memory of the Jewish past, drawing on memoirs, literature, film, and photography. 
3273:This course covers France's conquest, rule, and loss of Algeria, and the relationship between French and Algerian people in Algeria and France from 1830 to the present. Topics such as modern French and North African history, colonialism, Islam, immigration, terror/torture, and cross- cultural exchange are all featured in this transnational course. 
3274:This course examines the development of museums in Europe and the United States from the 18th century to the present. A variety of perspectives of museums are presented with the goal of understanding their connections to larger political and cultural trends. 
3275:This course examines the development of museums in Europe and the U.S. from the 18th century to the present. A variety of perspectives of museums are presented with the goal of understanding their connections to larger political and cultural trends. 
3276:This course underscores the ways in which Western medicine has become a global political and cultural phenomenon in history, and discusses evidence of how different social actors have parsed the distinction between sickness and health over time. 
3277:This course underscores the ways in which Western medicine has become a global political and cultural phenomenon in history, and discusses evidence of how different social actors have parsed the distinction between sickness and health over time. 
3278:This class will study the history of the claim that the Jews are responsible for Christ's death. Students will examine the power of this idea to travel through time and space and discuss how it is portrayed differently and with different purposes throughout history. 
3279:This class will study the history of the claim that the Jews are responsible for Christ's death. Students will examine the power of this idea to travel through time and space and discuss how it is portrayed differently and with different purposes throughout history. 
3280:Which of the following would you consider potentially political issues: celibacy; semen retention; body-building; depiction of gods/goddesses; or bomb making? Well, they all are. This course examines debates over sex, religion, and violence that constituted a key part of revolutionary thought and anti-colonial struggles in modern South Asia. 
3281:This course explores diverse experiences of modernity among Jewish populations from the mid-18th century to the present under the influence of political, cultural, and socioeconomic changes. Diaries, memoirs, literature, and film challenge students to develop their own analyses while becoming familiar with arguments among scholars of Jewish life. 
3282:The turn of the 20th century was characterized by a highly stylized angst, and nowhere more so than in Russia. This course explores how the political, social, cultural, and economic transformations that vibrated throughout Russia provided a fertile context for the burst of creativity that spawned its modernist artistic movements. 
3283:This team-taught course compares premodern empires, inquiring into rulers' strategies and subject peoples' experiences. Empires studied will depend on instructors' areas of expertise, but may include Greeks, Romans, Chinese, Incas, West Africans, Mughals, and Ottomans, among others. We anticipate comparing three premodern empires in any given semester. 
3284:The course focus on theories on fascism, national cultures of fascism (e.g. Nazi Germany, Fascist Italy, Hungary) as well as selected topics which are essential to understand the attraction and functioning of fascist movements and regimes since 1918 in Europe (e.g. racism, war, culture, charismatic leadership). 
3285:This course will examine the history of how empires uses grand claims of civilizational, moral, and religious claims in their foreign policy and grand strategy with a focus on the British, Ottoman, and Japanese imperial strategies. The course will also discuss contemporary legacies of British- Ottoman confrontation in WWI and British-Japanese conflict in WWII. 
3286:The history of warfare from its prehistoric origins to the present. The focus is on interactions between peoples around the world and particularly on the problems of innovation and adaptation. 
3287:The course examines and compares the images of war and gender that movies from different time periods and countries propagate and explores the different factors that influence these images and thereby the perception and recollection of war. 
3288:The course examines the interrelations between changes in warfare, the military system, and the gender order in Europe from medieval to modern time, and its reflection in international movies. 
3289:This course will explore women's experiences in America from 1500 to1865. Topics will include the ways in which women have shaped American politics, economy, society, and culture. 
3290:This course will examine the changing lives of women in the United states after 1865: Their contribution to economy, society, cultural change, and political struggles. 
3291:An examination of the changing history of childhood (emphasizing preadolescence) from the colonial times through slavery, homeless news boys, and the Great Depression to the present. Materials will include a variety of primary documents (novels, letters, slave narratives, prints and drawings, films) as well as recent scholarship. 
3292:This course surveys questions that have preoccupied leading thinkers and shaped intellectual culture in America since 1870. Themes include the problem of defining American identity, the clash between faith and reason, social injustice, the meaning of "modernity," the power and pitfalls of ideology, conceptions of human nature. 
3293:This course surveys questions that have preoccupied leading thinkers and shaped intellectual culture in America since 1870. Themes include the problem of defining American identity, the clash between faith and reason, social injustice, the meaning of "modernity," the power and pitfalls of ideology, conceptions of human nature. 
3294:This course investigates the history of people who might today be defined as lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgender (LGBT) in the United States. Key themes will include identity formation, culture, politics, medical knowledge, discrimination, and community. 
3295:Course explores the historical significance of baseball in American life, using the history of the game to investigate topics such as industrialization, urbanization, and immigration; conflicts between labor and capital; racial prejudice and integration; patriotism and American identity; evolving gender ideals; and the role of myth in American culture. 
3296:Study of the popular arts and entertainments of the 19th and 20th centuries and the ways in which they illuminate the values, assumptions, aspirations, and fears of American society. 
3297:Study of the popular arts and entertainments of the 19th and 20th centuries and the ways in which they illuminate the values, assumptions, aspirations, and fears of American society. 
3298:A survey of the rise and development of the major financial, commercial, manufacturing, and transportation enterprises that transformed the United States from an agricultural into a leading industrial nation. 
3299:From the experience of colonial artisans to contemporary factory and office workers, organized and unorganized, this course examines the effect of the industrial revolution on the American social and political landscape. 
3300:The history of North Carolina from the original Indian cultures to the end of the Civil War. Important topics include colonization, the American Revolution, evangelical religion, slavery, economic and political reform, the rise of sectionalism, and the Civil War. 
3301:The history of North Carolina from the end of the Civil War to the present. Important topics include Reconstruction, agrarian protests, disfranchisement and segregation, industrialization and workers' experience, the civil rights movement, and 20th-century politics. 
3302:The American military experience from colonial times to the early 20th century. Major themes include the problem of security, the development of military policies and institutions, and the way in which the country waged and experienced war. 
3303:Survey of America's military experience in the 20th century, focusing on national security policy, military institutions, World Wars I and II, the Cold War, the Korean and Vietnam Wars, and recent interventions. 
3304:This course will examine Japan's long 16th century. Introduces students to the history of, and historiographical problems with the representation of, some of the most fascinating characters in Japanese history, including pirates, warlords, tea masters, Jesuit monks, Buddhist priests, and peripatetic artists. 
3305:Diverse developments as interpreted within the framework of certain broad and open-ended themes, particularly individual freedom, social welfare, mass culture, and community. 
3306:Diverse developments as interpreted within the framework of certain broad and open-ended themes, particularly individual freedom, social welfare, mass culture, and community. 
3307:A history of the United States in World War II (1941-1945): home front and military front. 
3308:A survey of the growth and development of the American West from the nineteenth century to the present as a culture, economy, and society. Considers the interactions between Native Americans and other people of different races, national origins and genders as agents and contributors to the forging of the American West. 
3309:This course will explore how Americans from 1600 to the present have defined what is masculine and what is feminine and how they have constructed their identities around those definitions. 
3310:Survey of African American history to abolition of slavery in North America with some attention to experiences of people of African descent in Latin America and the Caribbean. 
3311:Survey of African American history since emancipation in North America with some attention to experiences of people of African descent in Latin America and the Caribbean. 
3312:Survey of African American history since emancipation in North America with some attention to experiences of people of African descent in Latin America and the Caribbean. 
3313:This course explores the origins, consolidation, and unmaking of segregationist social orders in the American South and South Africa from the colonial era up to the 20th century. 
3314:The struggle for freedom has been a pivotal theme in African American history. This course turns to music to explore the shifting contours and permutations of that struggle between the 1940s and 1990s. 
3315:This course examines the history of the modern African American civil rights movement, focusing on its development and processes, historical significance, and continuing legacy in the United States of America and abroad. 
3316:The evolution of college sports since the creation of the grant-in-aid in 1956. Key turning points include the NCAA basketball tournament of 1979, the 1984 Supreme Court ruling that opened the floodgates to television money, the cascading scandals of the 21st century, and the emergence of an "athletes' rights" movement. 
3317:Through a variety of interconnected themes, this course focuses on the wide-ranging experiences of life in the United States of America during the 1960s to explain major shifts in postwar modern American history and explore the origins of contemporary American society. 
3318:Through a variety of interconnected themes, this course focuses on the wide-ranging experiences of life in the United States of America during the 1960s to explain major shifts in postwar modern American history and explore the origins of contemporary American society. 
3319:Explores women's experiences in the workforce historically and today. Lectures, readings, and discussions examine the larger social and political consequences of women's presence in the workplace, efforts to fashion identities as wage laborers on their own terms, race and class divisions, and the boundaries between their waged and unwaged labors. 
3320:Subject matter will vary with instructor but will focus on some particular topic or historical approach. Course description available from departmental office. Closed to graduate students. Repeatable for credit. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
3321:Subject matter will vary with instructor but will focus on some particular topic or historical approach. Course description available from departmental office. Closed to graduate students. Repeatable for credit. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
3322:Permission of the department. The course is in general limited to 15 students. The subject matter will vary with the instructor. Each course will concern itself with a study in depth of some historical problem. Students will write a substantial research paper. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
3323:This course deals with ancient Greek religious practices and seeks to place them in their legal, political, and cultural contexts, and thus integrate them into the study of Greek history. 
3324:The rise of Macedonia; the careers of Philip II and Alexander (with emphasis on the latter's campaigns); the emerging Hellenistic Age. The course integrates computer (including Web site) and audiovisual materials throughout. 
3325:War and the warrior in the archaic and classical Greek world, seventh to the fourth centuries BCE. 
3326:HIST 225 strongly recommended. Topical approach to the social and cultural history of the ancient Greek city states, ca. 800-336 BCE. 
3327:HIST 225 strongly recommended. The life and times of the ancient Athenians from the sixth to fourth centuries BCE. 
3328:Explores the transformation from Republic to Principate. Conducted in considerable part by student reports and classroom discussions. 
3329:Focuses upon administrative, social, and economic themes. Conducted in considerable part by student reports and classroom discussions. 
3330:Focuses upon administrative, social, and economic themes. Conducted in considerable part by student reports and classroom discussions. 
3331:The nature and workings of the Western church between roughly 600 and 1300. Emphasis on the church "from within," organization, missionary strategies, liturgy, monasticism, popular religion. 
3332:Students in this course will examine Christian attitudes toward holy war, crusading, and other forms of coercive violence from the 11th until the 15th centuries, with a focus on the major crusades to the Holy Land. 
3333:Examines critical issues in the development of English society and economy in the centuries before industrialization. 
3334:A consideration of England's origins, unification, and development as a national monarchy. Primary emphasis is on political, ecclesiastical, and cultural aspects. 
3335:The origins and development of the university during the period 1100 to 1400; types of organization, curricula and degrees, intellectual life, town- gown and student-master relationships. 
3336:This course has as its theme the lives of aristocratic men and women in western Europe between about 850 and 1200 CE. Discusses the nature of aristocratic identity, the trends that shaped the lives of aristocratic men and women, and the different roles of men and women within aristocratic culture. 
3337:This course examines the multifaceted constructions of masculinity found in narrative texts produced in medieval western Europe. Focuses on topics such as gender relations, male self-fashioning, homosocial bonding, family structures. Sources studied range from epic and romance to chronicles and visual records. 
3338:This course examines the multifaceted constructions of masculinity found in narrative texts produced in medieval western Europe. Focuses on topics such as gender relations, male self-fashioning, homosocial bonding, family structures. Sources studied range from epic and romance to chronicles and visual records. 
3339:The largest and most prosperous Jewry of Europe lived in medieval Spain. The 1492 expulsion, driven by the Inquisition and Catholic monarchy, not only ended Spanish Jewish life but also forced a traumatic redefinition of Jewish identity. This course focuses on the causes and consequences of the expulsion of 1492. 
3340:A study of the people, culture, and intellectual achievements of the Italian Renaissance with emphasis on the interaction between culture and society. 
3341:A picture of Mediterranean social and economic life 1300 to 1600, with special focus on rural and urban society, family structure, patronage, work and wages, public and private finance. 
3342:Examines a movement of religious reform that shattered Latin Christendom and contributed many of the conditions of early modern Europe. Emphases: religious, political, social. 
3343:The century marks the watershed in European development. Emphases: statecraft, the emerging state-system, the new scientific world view, the evolution of European society. 
3344:Europe and the experience of total war, with special focus on national conflicts; ideological conflicts among fascism, communism, and liberalism; and the dictatorships of Hitler and Stalin. 
3345:This is a survey of evangelical Christianity from 1600 to the present. We will trace the roots of evangelicalism in post-Reformation Europe, its diverse expressions and political influence in modern Western culture, and its recent spread throughout the Global South. 
3346:Examines the major late medieval religious, social, and political developments plus the Reformation and Counter-Reformation. Topics include Luther's theology, the German Peasant's War, Jewish-Christian relations, witch-hunting, and family life. 
3347:Examines major political, social, and cultural developments. Topics include the growth of absolutist government, Prussia's militarism and rivalry with Austria, German Jewry, Baroque music, the Enlightenment, and the Napoleonic wars. 
3348:This course examines the changes in German politics, culture, and society during the long 19th century, with a focus on the Anti-Napoleonic Wars and the following era of restoration, the Vormärz and the Democratic Revolution of 1848 to1849, the German Unification of 1871 and the Wilhelmine Empire, and finally World War I. 
3349:This course examines the changes in German politics, culture, and society during the long 19th century, with a focus on the Anti-Napoleonic Wars and the following era of restoration, the Vormärz and the Democratic Revolution of 1848 to1849, the German Unification of 1871 and the Wilhelmine Empire, and finally World War I. 
3350:This course examines the changes in German politics, culture, and society during the 20th century, with a focus on the Weimar Republic, the Third Reich and World War II, the reshaping of East and West Germany since the post-war era, and the unification in 1989. 
3351:This course examines the changes in German politics, culture, and society during the 20th century, with a focus on the Weimar Republic, the Third Reich and World War II, the reshaping of East and West Germany since the post-war era, and the unification in 1989. 
3352:A survey of Spanish history from the Islamic invasion to Napoleon. Particular attention will be given to the period of the Hapsburgs, 1516 to 1700. 
3353:The course examines the gradual erosion of and criticism within the classical Christian tradition that led to the emergence of a new mentality by the end of the 17th century. Two lectures, one discussion per week. 
3354:The main developments in European thought from the Enlightenment to the 20th century, with some attention to social context. Readings include Voltaire, Rousseau, Hegel, Marx, Tocqueville, Sand, Flaubert, Nietzsche, Freud. 
3355:A survey of changes in social organization, family life, courtship practices, sexual behavior, and the relations between the economy and population that occurred in preindustrial Europe, 1500-1815. 
3356:An examination of the interaction of artists, criticism, and the market with larger political and social developments in France, with an emphasis on primary sources. 
3357:The social transformation of Europe from agrarian through postindustrial society, discussing population growth, family history, spread of education, class structure, social conflict, group ideologies, and mass politics, as well as everyday lives and popular lifestyles. 
3358:Traces the creation of scientific thought 1500 to 1700, from Leonardo to Newton, examining the various strands--Greek science, art, engineering, experimentation, occultism, etc.--woven into it. 
3359:A survey of the development since 1700 of the various branches of physical and biological science, culminating in the 20th-century revolution in physics. 
3360:Shows how the age of Shakespeare and Newton (16th- to 17th-century England) fused old and new ideas about medicine and health, anticipating some of our own beliefs and practices. 
3361:A lecture course, open to juniors, seniors, and graduate students. 
3362:The course provides a historical, political, and socio-economic framework for understanding British history and politics in the 20th and 21st centuries. We will assess important turning points in domestic British politics, the main focus will be on Britain's foreign relations during both the Cold War and the post-Cold War years. 
3363:This course will examine the unprecedented surge of feminist thought and activism in the postwar United States. Course materials and discussions will trace feminists' varied conceptions of empowered womanhood and their expectations of the state, society at large, and each other. 
3364:This course will examine the unprecedented surge of feminist thought and activism in the postwar United States. Course materials and discussions will trace feminists' varied conceptions of empowered womanhood and their expectations of the state, society at large, and each other. 
3365:The history of modern Eastern, East Central, and southeastern Europe has been shaped by the ethnic and religious diversity of the regions. This course examines experiences in the Russian, Habsburg, and Ottoman Empires and their successor states from the 19th century to the present day. 
3366:A close study of Russia's age of revolution from the reign of the last tsar to the turbulent Stalin Revolution of 1929, with emphasis on the revolutions of 1917. 
3367:An in-depth examination of Soviet and post-Soviet history from 1929 to the present. 
3368:The diplomatic, military, and ideological confrontations with the West; the decline and fall of the Russian autocracy; the evolution of reform thought; and revolutionary opposition. 
3369:An examination of the countries of Eastern Europe, their origins and development since World War II, their cohesion and conflict. 
3370:This course examines the development of the Russian Empire, from the Mongol conquest in the 13th century to the transformation of Imperial Russia in the Soviet Union after 1917. 
3371:This course explores the role of nation and religion in shaping political, cultural, and social experience and change in Tsarist and Soviet Russia through the prism of Christianity, Islam, and Judaism. 
3372:This course examines the role that Islam has played in the history of the Russian sphere--interior Russia, Siberia, the Caucasus, and Central Asia-- from the 18th century to the present. Topics include methods of rule, social change, Islamic institutions, attempts to bureaucratize religion, and resistance. 
3373:Eastern Europe was one of the largest centers of Jewish civilization from premodern times to the Second World War, giving rise to important religious, cultural, and political developments in Jewish modernity. This course examines main developments of Jewish society from the late 18th century until the aftermath of the Holocaust. 
3374:In the debate on how to efficiently combat terrorism without abandoning the rule-of-law, it is often neglected that this is not a new problem. This course will examine European states' reactions to national and international terrorism since the 1960s. Case studies will include Germany, Italy, and the United Kingdom. 
3375:Subject matter will vary with instructor but will focus on some particular topic or historical approach. Course description available from the departmental office. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
3376:Subject matter will vary with instructor but will focus on some particular topic or historical approach. Course description available from the departmental office. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
3377:Permission of the director of undergraduate studies. A supervised internship at an organization or institution engaged in the promotion of historical studies or the collection and preservation of historical documents and artifacts. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
3378:Permission of the director of undergraduate studies. Directed reading and relevant writing, supervised by a member of the department, in a selected field of history. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
3379:Permission of the director of undergraduate studies. Directed primary source research and production of a research project, supervised by a member of the department. Prior coursework in the selected field is recommended. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
3380:This course explores the growing body of research on gender, empire, and nation/nationalism in modern European history by focusing on problems of national belongings and citizenship, state and nation building and empire formation, and the gendered discourses and representations of nation and empire. 
3381:This course explores the growing body of research on gender and welfare in a comparative perspective by focusing on the sexual division of labor in the workforce and the family, related social and family policies, including child care, and social citizenship in a comparative perspective. 
3382:This course considers slavery in comparative context, from ancient times to the present and across the world. It offers a chronological narrative and raises themes for comparison, including women in slavery and challenges to slavery. This approach allows for a wide view of this pervasive institution and develops analytical skills. 
3383:This course looks at the international history of human rights from the Enlightenment to the present and considers how human rights ideas first emerged, how they evolved, and how they became so influential. 
3384:This course looks at the international history of human rights from the Enlightenment to the present and considers how human rights ideas first emerged, how they evolved, and how they became so influential. 
3385:This course focuses on three great decolonization movements- Communism, Nationalism, and Islamism-in the postcolonial Islamic world, in an attempt to understand the impact of the 9/11/2001 terrorists attacks on the social, political, and cultural life of Muslims in predominantly Islamic countries and diasporic communities in the West. 
3386:Explores the role of monuments in the formation of cultural memory and identity, both nationally and globally. Topics include the construction of identities in and through public spaces, commemoration of both singular individuals and ordinary citizens, and the appearance of new types of post-traumatic monuments in the 20th century. 
3387:This course explores the ways in which Western historians and other students of the past from Adam Ferguson to Stephen Jay Gould have conceptualized and packaged historical time. 
3388:This course explores the ways in which Western historians and other students of the past from Adam Ferguson to Stephen Jay Gould have conceptualized and packaged historical time. 
3389:This course introduces students to new research on the history of gender, the military, and war in a comparative perspective. It explores the interrelations between changing military systems, types of warfare, the gender order, as well as political, social, and cultural currents in modern history. 
3390:This course offers a survey of the history of the Andean region. The primary focus will be either the pre-Inca, Inca, and colonial periods or the 19th and 20th centuries, depending on the instructor. 
3391:This course surveys the history of Latin American indigenous peoples from the conquest to the present. Focus is on indigenous struggles and survival strategies. 
3392:This course examines the leftist guerrilla movements that swept Latin America and the Caribbean during the latter half of the 20th century. Students will analyze the origins, trajectories, and legacies of these insurgencies, paying particular attention to the roles of race, class, and gender. 
3393:This upper-division course focuses on the major issues, debates, and conflicts that arose over citizenship in a multi-ethnic society, tensions between church and state, and the definition of national territory in Mexico as a new and modernizing nation. 
3394:Thematic approach to the history of the West Indies, with emphasis on the period from European conquest through the 20th century. Topics include colonialism, slavery, monoculture, United States-Caribbean relations, and decolonization. 
3395:Thematic approach to Cuban history, from conquest to the revolution. Attention is given to socioeconomic developments, slavery and race relations, the 19th-century independence process, and the 20th-century republic. 
3396:This course is concerned primarily with the creation of a new society through race mixture and culture change, and with the political and economic development of Brazil. 
3397:A comparative examination of the movements, experiences, and contributions of Africans and people of African descent from the period of the Atlantic slave trade to the present. 
3398:This course will focus on revolutionary change in the Middle East during the last century, emphasizing internal social, economic, and political conditions as well as international contexts. 
3399:Explores the lives of women in the Middle East and how they have changed over time. Focus will change each year. 
3400:This course explores changing interactions between the Middle East and the West, including trade, warfare, scientific exchange, and imperialism, and ends with an analysis of contemporary relations in light of the legacy of the past. 
3401:This course is intended as a broad overview of Southeast Asian economic history from premodern times to the present day. 
3402:Explores sub-Saharan Africa both as a historical site of exploitative, extractive labor practices and initiatives to make business more ethical. Starting in the precolonial period, it considers topics such as ending the slave trades, the foundations of colonial economies, development projects postindependence, and the use of conflict minerals. 
3403:Explores sub-Saharan Africa both as a historical site of exploitative, extractive labor practices and initiatives to make business more ethical. Starting in the precolonial period, it considers topics such as ending the slave trades, the foundations of colonial economies, development projects postindependence, and the use of conflict minerals. 
3404:This course is designed to introduce undergraduates to recent historical scholarship in the field of Chinese gender studies. Topics include family and kinship, the body and bodily practices, social space, writing, sexuality, work, and law, covering both the premodern and modern periods. No prior coursework required. 
3405:This course traces the fascinating history of material, cultural, and theological exchanges and conflicts between individuals belonging to two of the world's major religions: Hinduism and Islam. Throughout the course we will also analyze how modern commentators have selectively used the past to inform their understandings of the present. 
3406:An analysis of the roles of women and men in Indian societies from the early to the modern periods. Topics include the cultural construction of gender and sexuality; beauty and bodily practices; gender and religion; gender and politics; race, imperialism, and gender. 
3407:This course examines the histories, representations, and cultural perceptions surrounding bandits and rebels in modern India. The representations of bandits and rebels are studied in the light of the emergence of nationalism, shifting notions of gender and masculinity, race relations, and emergence of capitalist structures. 
3408:An in-depth history of colonial North America. Topics include: interactions among Native Americans, Europeans, and Africans and the founding and development of English, French, and Spanish colonies in the lands that eventually became the United States. 
3409:This course combines readings and field work in oral history with the study of performance as a means of interpreting and conveying oral history texts. 
3410:This course combines readings and field work in oral history with the study of performance as a means of interpreting and conveying oral history texts. 
3411:The society and politics of the United States during the period dominated by President Andrew Jackson. Topics include economic development, the expansion of slavery, religion and reform, the changing roles of women, and the political movements associated with 'Jacksonian democracy.' 
3412:Major topics: constitutional conflict in the British empire; independence and war; Confederation and Constitution; growth of political parties and nationality in a period of domestic change and international conflict. 
3413:Focus is on causes, nature, and consequences of the Civil War. 
3414:A history of the sexual practices, desires, and understandings of Americans, from earliest colonial encounters to the late 20th century. 
3415:An exploration of the distinctive themes in Southern women's lives, using the evidence of history and literature. 
3416:The course covers the history of black women in the United States from the 18th century to the present. It deals with such themes as work, family, community, sexuality, politics, religion, and culture. 
3417:A wide-ranging exploration of America's longest war, from 19th-century origins to 1990s legacies, from village battlegrounds to the Cold War context, from national leadership to popular participation and impact. 
3418:Explores the history of music in the American South from its roots to 20th-century musical forms, revealing how music serves as a window on the region's history and culture. 
3419:The history of the Spanish colonial experience north of Mexico, to 1820. 
3420:Introduces students to the study of Native American women through the perspectives of anthropology, history, and autobiography. 
3421:How the United States came to occupy a leading role in world affairs as a diplomatic, military, economic, and cultural power and what that role has meant to Americans and to other peoples, especially during the Cold War. 
3422:This course considers transatlantic relations in its security, political, and economic dimensions. The course also analyzes U.S. attempts to construct a more united European continent. It is the main aim of this course to give students a structured overview of transatlantic relations and geo-political developments from 1945 to the present. 
3423:In a classroom environment characterized by discussion, simulation, and interaction, the antecedents, formation, and interpretation of the Constitution are confronted in a broad historical matrix. 
3424:Using a classroom environment similar to HIST 581, constitutional adjustments and change are related to psychological, political, social, and economic factors, and to Supreme Court members. 
3425:A survey of the development of American cities since 1815 and their influence upon American history. 
3426:Economic, cultural, and social history of the antebellum South. The region's political history will serve as a supporting part of the study. 
3427:This course explores the transformation of the South from the time of the Civil War and emancipation to the contemporary rise of the Sunbelt. 
3428:This course explores the transformation of the South from the time of the Civil War and emancipation to the contemporary rise of the Sunbelt. 
3429:This course will historically and critically examine the changing legal status of people of color in the United States. Within a broad historical matrix from the colonial era to the present, it will focus on African Americans, Native Americans, Asian Americans, Latina/os, and United States law. 
3430:Examines African American intellectuals in North America with some attention to black writers in the Caribbean. Emphasizes American Negro Academy, black scholars, scholar-activists, writers, and public intellectuals. 
3431:Technology's impact on American thought and society and the response it has engendered. Topics will include the factory town, search for utopia, impact of Henry Ford, war, and depersonalization. 
3432:Introduces students to the uses of interviews in historical research. Questions of ethics, interpretation, and the construction of memory will be explored, and interviewing skills will be developed through field work. 
3433:Introduces the theory, politics, and practice of historical work conducted in public venues (museums, historic sites, national parks, government agencies, archives), directed at public audiences, or addressed to public issues. 
3434:Permission of the instructor. Introduction to the methods of historical research; designed to lead to the completion of an honors essay. 
3435:Permission of the instructor. Introduction to the methods of historical research; designed to lead to the completion of an honors essay. 
3436:Myths and legends are the stuff of history. An interdisciplinary capstone course treating topics such as Alexander the Great and George Washington as mytho-historical heroes, the Holy Grail, and uses of myth in the modern world. 
3437:Content varies each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
3438:Teaching as an intellectual discipline, including its impact on society. Students experience teaching, study how people learn, reflect upon their own learning, and discuss the role of education in society. Pass/Fail only. 
3439:Teaching as an intellectual discipline, including its impact on society. Students experience teaching, study how people learn, reflect upon their own learning, and discuss the role of education in society. 
3440:Researchers from the Triangle region and beyond will discuss their research to provide students with exposure to research opportunities and careers outside academia. This course meets a requirement for the Carolina Research Scholars Program. 
3441:Special topics course. Content varies each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
3442:A seminar in which faculty discuss their own work. Students will learn how topics are defined and investigated and how undergraduates can engage in discovery. Pass/Fail only. 
3443:Required of Chancellor's Science Scholars and open to others by permission of the instructor. The course will explore the broad range of STEM research available at UNC-Chapel Hill, and will address issues of developing more diversity in the STEM research workforce nationwide. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
3444:Permission of the instructor and the instructor's department. Learning contract required. Students participating in UNC-led study abroad programs develop activities to supplement instruction in on-campus courses. Supervised by the on-campus instructor, students file reports on the sites, language, and culture of the country in which they are studying. Pass/Fail only. 
3445:This course will examine American colleges and universities from a variety of perspectives, ranging from the individual student's experience to the role of higher education in larger social systems. The course will survey diverse institutions in American higher education. Students will compare the unique needs of these institutions as well as the populations they serve. 
3446:Independent project to be arranged with an instructor. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 6 total completions. 
3447:Permission of the department. Special reading and research for graduate and undergraduate students on a specific interdisciplinary topic under the direction of a faculty member. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 12 total credits. 2 total completions. 
3448:Permission of the instructor. Required of all senior honors candidates. 
3449:Permission of the instructor. Second semester of senior honors thesis; required of all senior honors candidates. 
3450:Special topics course. Content will vary each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
3451:A broad interdisciplinary introduction to the field of Latin American studies. 
3452:This is a reading and discussion seminar that will introduce students to topics in the history of Latinos in the United States from the 19th century to the present. 
3453:LTAM 396. Independent Study. 1-3 Credits. Independent project to be arranged with an instructor. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
3454:This course uses experiential education to explore how Mexicans are building opportunities in migratory communities in the transnational city of Guanajuato. This one-credit course is open to students participating in the UNC Study Abroad Program at the University of Guanajuato, Mexico. Students submit a final paper. 
3455:A three-part intensive introduction to spoken and written modern Yucatec Maya, including classroom instruction; culture, history, and linguistics workshops; and a four-week field study in Yucatán, Mexico. 
3456:Continuing instruction in spoken and written Yucatec Maya. Classroom instruction; culture, history, and linguistics workshops; and field study. Taught in Yucatán, Mexico. students lacking the prerequisite. 
3457:LTAM 691H. Honors in Latin American Studies. 3 Credits. Directed independent research leading to the preparation of an honors thesis. 
3458:Completion of the honors thesis and an oral examination of the thesis. 
3459:Interdisciplinary core seminar required of Latin American studies majors and open to other students. Topics vary by semester. 
3460:.. 3 Credits. The linguistic landscape of the United States in historical and contemporary perspective: American English dialects, language maintenance and shift among Native American and immigrant groups, language politics and policy. 
3461:Special topics course. Content will vary each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
3462:Special topics course. Content will vary each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
3463:Introduction to the formal analysis of human language, including sounds, words, sentences, and language meaning, plus child language acquisition, language change over time, social attitudes toward language, and similarities and differences among languages. Other topics may include writing systems, animal communication, and language analysis by computers. 
3464:Introduction to the formal analysis of human language, including sounds, words, sentences, and language meaning, plus child language acquisition, language change over time, social attitudes toward language, and similarities and differences among languages. Other topics may include writing systems, animal communication, and language analysis by computers. 
3465:An examination of the differences between natural human languages and other communication systems. Includes a philosophical inquiry into how languages relate to the world and the mind. 
3466:An examination of the differences between natural human languages and other communication systems. Includes a philosophical inquiry into how languages relate to the world and the mind. 
3467:Description and analysis of sound patterns from languages around the world. Introduction to formal phonological models, written argumentation, and hypothesis testing. Students may not receive credit for both LING 200 and LING 523. 
3468:Introduction to the goals and methods of transformational analysis, using English primarily, but examining how these techniques can be used to describe syntactic processes in other languages. Students may not receive credit for both LING 201 and LING 530. 
3469:Introduction to the analysis and description of language change, relationships among languages, and types of linguistic structure. Students may not receive credit for both LING 202 and LING 525. 
3470:Provides an introduction to first-language acquisition, focusing on the acquisition of phonology, morphology, syntax, and semantics, as well as on the social context of language acquisition and issues of atypical language development. Students may not receive credit for both LING 203 and LING 528. 
3471:An examination of the differences between natural human languages and other communication systems. Includes a philosophical inquiry into how languages relate to the world and the mind. 
3472:In-depth treatment of a selected issue or topic in linguistics. Topic will vary with the instructor. Course may be taken more than once when the topic varies. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
3473:This course provides an overview of language and power studies. Issues: sexist and sex-neutral language; languages of subcultures defined by gender, sexual orientation, ethnicity; hate speech; "politically correct" language. 
3474:This course is an introduction to languages indigenous to the Americas. The course touches on the linguistic structure and classification of Native American languages as well as on social issues. 
3475:Focuses on the use of linguistic forms to express communicative intentions. How language is used for the purposes of persuasion, manipulation, irony, humor, poetry, propaganda, and attitudes. 
3476:Students are introduced to the causes and contexts of language endangerment and the complex process of language revitalization. Topics to be covered include assessment of endangerment level, language and thought, language attitudes, bilingual education, and language planning. We will also consider a number of case studies of endangered languages. 
3477:This course focuses on language, identity, and nationalism in contemporary societies, with special emphasis on Europe, Africa, Asia, and the United States. 
3478:This course treats the structural properties of African American English. Students will learn to use sentence data to test hypotheses about language structure by investigating the syntax and semantics of African American English. 
3479:Introduction to the description of sound systems with a focus on Spanish. Includes the study of the historical development of Spanish and its areal and social variation in Spain, Latin America, and the United States. 
3480:Introduction to the linguistic study of meaning, grammatical form, and dialectal and sociolinguistic variation, with a particular focus on modern Spanish and the languages of Spain and Latin America. 
3481:Linguistic structuralism as a background for modern theories of language. 
3482:An introduction to the scientific study of language. The nature of language structure. How languages are alike and how they differ. 
3483:Uses simple linguistic problems to introduce students to the use of programming languages especially suited to analyze and process natural language on the computer. No prior programming knowledge is presupposed. 
3484:Development of and present state of research in cognitive linguistics. Readings discuss various language phenomena and are drawn from linguistics, psychology, philosophy, artificial intelligence, and literary analysis of metaphor. 
3485:At least two courses in philosophy other than PHIL 155, including PHIL 345, strongly recommended. A study of important contemporary contributions in philosophy of language. Topics include meaning, reference, and truth. 
3486:Focuses on the practical skills required to carry out basic experiments in speech production or perception. Includes training in a general- purpose programming language (such as Perl) for automating repetitive tasks, experiment-control software, audio stimulus manufacture and editing, palatography, aerodynamic measurements, and other laboratory techniques relevant to student interests. 
3487:This course covers theoretical issues in childhood simultaneous bilingualism, and child and adult second-language acquisition, under both naturalistic and classroom learning circumstances. 
3488:Recommended preparation, at least one higher-level core course in linguistics. Surveys current answers to such questions as, When and how did language first appear? What do other animal communication systems share with language? Do restricted linguistic systems (e. g., pidgins) preserve "fossils" of early human language? 
3489:At least two courses in philosophy other than PHIL 155, including PHIL 345, strongly recommended. A study of important contemporary contributions in philosophy of language. Topics include meaning, reference, and truth. 
3490:Introduction for graduates and advanced undergraduates. 
3491:Study of cultural variation in styles of speaking applied to collection of ethnographic data. Talk as responsive social action and its role in the constitution of ethnic and gender identities. 
3492:Directed readings on linguistic topics not covered in specific courses. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
3493:Permission of the director of undergraduate studies. LING 101 and additional coursework in linguistics strongly recommended. An intensive mentored project; topic to be determined in a learning contract between student and instructor. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
3494:Introduction to the general principles of linguistic phonetics; anatomy of vocal tract, physiology of speech production, universal phonetic theory. Practice in the recognition and transcription of speech sounds. 
3495:This course relates linguistic theory to experimental findings. Students design and carry out experiments to test theoretical issues of current theoretical importance. 
3496:Permission of the instructor for undergraduates. Introduction to the principles of modern generative phonology. Methods and theory of phonological analysis. Students may not receive credit for both LING 200 and LING 523. 
3497:Intermediate phonological theory and analysis. 
3498:Permission of the instructor for undergraduates. Theories and methods of historical and comparative linguistics, with emphasis upon the Indo- European family. Students may not receive credit for both LING 202 and LING 525. 
3499:Production, perception, and phonological patterns and processes in second-language learning and use. Effects of first-language transfer and universal linguistic factors. Seminar-style class based on primary literature. 
3500:Cross-linguistic investigation of internal word structure: inflection and derivation, word formation rules versus affixation, autosegmental morphology, morpholexical and morphophonemic rules, and the interaction of morphology with phonology and syntax. 
3501:Permission of the instructor for undergraduates. One course in phonology or syntax recommended. Child language from a theoretical perspective. Topics include segmentation problems, acquisition of phonology, morphology and syntax, lexical acquisition, and language development in blind and deaf children and in bilinguals. Students may not receive credit for both LING 203 and LING 528. 
3502:This course focuses on the development of syntax in first-language acquisition in children. Topics will include parameter setting, null subjects, root infinitives, aspect, A-movement, binding theory, and control. 
3503:Permission of the instructor for undergraduates. Methods and theory of grammatical analysis within the transformational generative framework. Special emphasis on analyzing syntactic and semantic structures of English. Students may not receive credit for both LING 201 and LING 530. 
3504:Methods and theory of grammatical analysis, with special reference to transformational grammar. 
3505:Semantics as a part of linguistic theory: co- and disjoint reference among nominals, "crossover" phenomena, quantifier scope, lexical semantics, Montague grammar and compositional semantics, and explanatory universals in semantic theory. 
3506:A continuation of LING 537 (Semantic Theory I), this course prepares the student to read the formal semantic literature and to do original research in the field. . 
3507:The representation of time and temporal relations in natural languages. Cross-linguistic study of tense and aspect distinctions, modality, temporal adverbials, temporal anaphora, and sequences of tenses. 
3508:Introduction to topics in logic, set theory, and modern algebra with emphasis on linguistic application. Automata theory and the formal theory of grammar with special reference to transformational grammars. No previous mathematics assumed. 
3509:Examination of the social contexts of language contact and their linguistic outcomes, with particular emphasis on the formation of pidgins and creoles. The course investigates the structural properties of these new contact languages and evaluates the conflicting theories that explain their genesis. 
3510:Examines language as a political issue in the 19th and 20th centuries. Emphasis placed on American and British politics but attention to one other national context as well. 
3511:The course treats the relationship among linguistics, artificial intelligence, neurobiology, cognitive psychology, and the philosophies of mind, language, and science. permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisite. 
3512:Survey of the linguistic properties associated with aphasia, autism, Williams syndrome, dyslexia, and schizophrenia. Emphasis on the implications of these conditions for theories of mind. 
3513:A survey of the phonological systems of the major Indo-European languages and their development from Proto-Indo-European. 
3514:Introduction to the major morphological categories in the Indo-European languages and their development from the proto-language. 
3515:This course is an introduction to the ancient scripts of pre-Columbian Mexico and Central America. It focuses on the following scripts: Mayan, Epi-Olmec, Zapotec, and Mixtec. 
3516:Surveys the basic characteristics that unify Mesoamerica as a cultural and linguistic area (e.g. sound systems, word order, color systems, diffused vocabulary, etc.), the basic sources of cultural and linguistic information available (e.g. ancient hieroglyphs, colonial manuscripts, contemporary documents, linguistic fieldwork), and the consequences of ancient and modern cross-cultural interaction. 
3517:This course explores the phonological and morphological structure of selected Amerindian languages indigenous to the Americas. Emphasis is on the linguistic analysis of original as well as published primary data. 
3518:Examines Russian from the perspective of linguistic analysis. How do sounds, words, and sentences pattern in Russian? How do these compare with patterns in other languages? Also considers the influence of evidence from Russian on the development of linguistic theory. instructor for students lacking the prerequisite. 
3519:Introductory linguistic description of modern Japanese. For students of linguistics with no knowledge of Japanese and students of Japanese with no knowledge of linguistics. 
3520:The phonology, morphology, and syntax of French are traced from the Latin foundation to the present. Lectures, readings, discussions, and textual analysis. the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
3521:The study of sounds as system in modern standard French. Lecture, discussion, laboratory practice in practical phonetics according to individual needs. students lacking the prerequisite. 
3522:Introduction to phonology, morphology, and syntax of modern standard French. Application of modern linguistic theory to the teaching of French. the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
3523:Analysis and description of a language unknown to the class from data solicited from a native-speaker consultant. 
3524:Continuation of LING 573. 
3525:Linguistic theories from classical times to the present with special emphasis on the origins of contemporary theories. 
3526:A study of current English structure and usage using a traditional approach modified by appropriate contributions from structural and generative grammar, with some attention to the application of linguistics to literary analysis. 
3527:The formation of the Spanish language and its cultures from Latin origins. Special attention to expansion of Spanish in the Americas and the situation of Spanish today. 
3528:See the program for honors in the College of Arts and Sciences and the department honors advisor. 
3529:See the program for honors in the College of Arts and Sciences and the department honors advisor. 
3530:Introduction to basic grammar and vocabulary, as well as cultural context and literary genres. 
3531:Students will examine evidence that human activity has caused global warming, investigate scientists' ability to predict climate change, and discuss the political and social dimensions of global climate change. 
3532:Modern theories of changing weather, severe weather events, oceanic hazards, interactions between the oceans and atmosphere, and changes that are linked to human activity. 
3533:What explains the "pull of the poles"? This seminar combines a modern survey of polar oceanography with historical views of early polar explorations, as reported by the explorers themselves. 
3534:This course provides an opportunity to explore changes in marine and closely linked terrestrial environments caused by the interactions of fascinating oceanographic processes. Introductory presentations and discussions will focus on published works of active marine scientists who combine disciplinary training with knowledge and skills from other fields. 
3535:Students will develop the conceptual framework necessary to understand waves of any kind, starting from laboratory observations. 
3536:Students will develop the conceptual framework necessary to understand waves of any kind, starting from laboratory observations. 
3537:This course explores the natural history of several inlets, impact of human intervention, and political/policy challenges faced; includes several group projects/presentations and a field trip to a coastal inlet. 
3538:This seminar focuses on some of the most extreme microorganisms on the planet, microorganisms that thrive without oxygen, under high temperatures (e.g., in pressurized water above the boiling point), and under chemical stress factors (high sulfide and heavy metal concentrations) that were once thought to be incompatible with life. 
3539:Special topics course. Content will vary each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
3540:Introduction to marine sciences emphasizing physical, chemical, biological, and geological phenomenon in oceanic and coastal environments. Human use of, and impact on, marine resources. Science majors should take MASC 401. Students may not receive credit for both MASC 101 and MASC 401. 
3541:Students quantify global depletion of energy resources and accompanying environmental degradation, discovering the profound changes in attitudes and behavior required to adjust to diminished fossil fuels and modified climate. 
3542:An undergraduate seminar course that is designed to be a participatory intellectual adventure on an advanced, emergent, and stimulating topic within a selected discipline in marine sciences. 
3543:Natural processes and human impacts on estuarine systems using the Neuse River estuary as a case study. Course includes one week of intensive field work based at the Institute of Marine Sciences. A student may not receive credit for this course after receiving credit for ENEC 222. 
3544:Required preparation, one introductory geology course numbered below GEOL 202, except first-year seminar. Introduction to coastal processes, including waves, tidal currents, tectonics, climate, and human activity, and their influence on barrier islands, beaches, dunes, marshes, and estuaries. Involves a field trip to the Outer Banks of North Carolina. 
3545:An overview of the scientific basis for global warming, current and future impacts on society, options for mitigation and adaptation, and the role of politics and the media. 
3546:Case studies in environmental change, highlighting human and environmental dynamics in terrestrial and marine ecosystems on multiple spatial and temporal scales. Includes active-learning modules, group presentations, writing assignments. 
3547:This course presents an integrated view of our planet, how it evolved during the past, why it has changed (and continues to change), and what makes Earth a habitable planet. 
3548:Special topics in marine sciences for undergraduate students. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 3 total completions. 
3549:Permission of a faculty research director. Directed readings with laboratory study on a selected topic. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 8 total credits. 4 total completions. 
3550:Permission of the instructor. Directed readings on a selected topic. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
3551:Required preparation, major in a natural science or two courses in natural sciences. Studies origin of ocean basins, seawater chemistry and dynamics, biological communities, sedimentary record, and oceanographic history. Term paper. Students lacking science background should see MASC 101. Students may not receive credit for both MASC 101 and MASC 401. 
3552:Principles of geological and related Earth systems sciences are applied to analyses of environmental phenomena. The link between the lithosphere and other environmental compartments is explored through case studies of environmental issues. Three lecture hours and one laboratory hour a week. PHYS 115 or 119; permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
3553:Principles of analysis of the ocean, coast, and estuarine environments and the processes that control these environments are applied to the analysis of environmental phenomena. Case studies of environmental issues. Three lecture hours and one laboratory hour a week. PHYS 115 or 119; permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
3554:Methods for developing explanatory and predictive models of environmental processes are explored. Includes discussion of the relevant scientific modes of analysis, mathematical methods, computational issues, and visualization techniques. Two lecture hours and one computer laboratory hour a week. 
3555:Introduction to modern shallow-water clastic environments and their sediments, emphasizing barrier islands, deltas, estuaries, wetlands, and tidal flats. Includes local field trips and discussion/application of data- collecting techniques. 
3556:An in-depth study of the biostratigraphy, paleoecology, and taxonomy of various microfossil groups (i.e., foraminifera, ostracodes, conodonts, coccoliths, radiolaria, diatoms, acritarchs, dinoflagellates, etc.) dependent upon individual student objectives. Three lecture and three laboratory hours a week. instructor for students lacking the prerequisite. 
3557:What are the linkages between rivers and global change? This course examines the hydrological, geological and biogeochemical processes that control material flux from land to the oceans via rivers. 
3558:Study of wetland ecosystems with particular emphasis on hydrological functioning, the transition from terrestrial to aquatic systems, wetlands as filtration systems, and exchange between wetlands and other environments. 
3559:Survey of the ecological processes that structure marine communities in a range of coastal habitats. Course emphasizes experimental approaches to addressing basic and applied problems in marine systems. 
3560:This course introduces students to the physiological, morphological, and behavioral factors employed by marine organisms to cope with their physical environment. Emphasis will be placed on the response of marine organisms to environmental factors such as seawater temperature, light, water salinity, ocean acidification, etc. 
3561:Recommended preparation, BIOL 201 or 475. A survey of plants and animals that live in the sea: characteristics of marine habitats, organisms, and the ecosystems will be emphasized. Marine environment, the organisms involved, and the ecological systems that sustain them. 
3562:Restricted to junior or senior science majors or graduate students, with permission of the instructor. Seminar class focuses on the primary research literature. Physiology of marine microorganisms, microbial diversity and ecology of the marine environment, biogeochemical processes catalyzed by marine microorganisms. 
3563:Permission of the instructor. For junior and senior science majors or graduate students. Biology of marine photosynthetic protists and cyanobacteria. Phytoplankton evolution, biodiversity, structure, function, biogeochemical cycles and genomics. Harmful algal blooms, commercial products, and climate change. Three lecture/practical session hours per week. 
3564:See BIOL 475 for description. 
3565:Course material covers host-microbe and microbe-microbe interactions found in marine ecosystems, including beneficial and parasitic relationships among viruses, microbes, marine animals, and humans. Limited to upper-level undergraduate science majors and graduate students. 
3566:A field-intensive study of the ecology of marine organisms and their interactions with their environment, including commercially important organisms. Laboratory/recitation/field work is included and contributes two credit hours to the course. 
3567:Principles of chemistry, biology, and geology are applied to analysis of the fate and transport of materials in environmental systems, with an emphasis on those materials that form the most significant cycles. Three lecture hours and one laboratory hour a week. 119; permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
3568:Principles and applications of fluid dynamics to flows of air and water in the natural environment. Conservation of momentum, mass, and energy applied to lakes, rivers, estuaries, and the coastal ocean. Dimensional analysis and scaling emphasized to promote problem-solving skills. students lacking the prerequisite. 
3569:For graduate students; undergraduate students should take ENEC 222 or have permission of the instructor. Introduction to estuarine environments: geomorphology, physical circulation, nutrient loading, primary and secondary production, carbon and nitrogen cycling, benthic processes and sedimentation. Considers human impacts on coastal systems, emphasizing North Carolina estuaries. 
3570:A cohesive examination of the human impacts on biological processes in estuarine ecosystems. Laboratory/recitation/field work is included and contributes two credit hours to the course. 
3571:Recommended preparation, one introductory geology course. An integration of barrier island plant and animal ecology within the context of physical processes and geomorphological change. Emphasis on management and impact of human interference with natural processes. 
3572:Mathematical modeling of dynamic systems, linear and nonlinear. The fundamental budget equation. Case studies in modeling transport, biogeochemical processes, population dynamics. Analytical and numerical techniques; chaos theory; fractal geometry. students lacking the prerequisite. 
3573:Directed readings, laboratory, and/or field study of marine science topics not covered in scheduled courses. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
3574:For graduate students; undergraduates need permission of the instructor. Investigates formation of ocean basins, coastal and fluvial processes, sediment transport, plate tectonics, petrography of marine rocks, ocean chemistry, oceanic biogeochemical cycles, application of geochemical proxies in paleoceanographic reconstructions, macroevolutionary patterns of marine biota, global oceanic change. Mandatory weekend fieldtrip. 
3575:For graduate students; undergraduates need permission of the instructor. Marine ecosystem processes pertaining to the structure, function, and ecological interactions of biological communities; management of biological resources; taxonomy and natural history of pelagic and benthic marine organisms. Three lecture and one recitation hours per week. Two mandatory weekend fieldtrips. 
3576:Graduate students only; undergraduates must have permission of the instructor. Overview of chemical processes in the ocean. Topics include physical chemistry of seawater, major element cycles, hydrothermal vents, geochemical tracers, air-sea gas exchange, particle transport, sedimentary processes, and marine organic geochemistry. Three lecture and two recitation hours per week. 
3577:For graduate students; undergraduates need permission of the instructor. Descriptive oceanography, large-scale wind-driven and thermohaline circulations, ocean dynamics, regional and nearshore/estuarine physical processes, waves, tides. Three lecture and one recitation hour per week. 
3578:Biogeochemical cycling explores interfaces of marine, aquatic, atmospheric, and geological sciences emphasizing processes controlling chemical distributions in sediments, fresh and salt water, the atmosphere, and fluxes among these reservoirs. or permission of the instructor. 
3579:Recommended preparation, CHEM 261 or MASC 505, and one additional ENVR, GEOL, or MASC course above 400. Sources, transformations, and fate of natural organic matter in marine environments. Emphasis on interplay of chemical, biological, and physical processes that affect organic matter composition, distribution, and turnover. 
3580:Introduction to the application of chemical principles to geological problems. Topics include thermodynamics, kinetics, and isotope geochemistry. MATH 231; permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
3581:The physical properties of fluids, kinematics, governing equations, viscous incompressible flow, vorticity dynamics, boundary layers, irrotational incompressible flow. students lacking the prerequisite. 
3582:Three components: statistics and probability, time series analysis, and spatial data analysis. Harmonic analysis, nonparametric spectral estimation, filtering, objective analysis, empirical orthogonal functions. students lacking the prerequisite. 
3583:Turbulence and transport in near-bottom boundary regions. Turbulence and mixing theory in boundary layers. Field deployment and recovery of turbulence measuring instruments. Data analysis from turbulence measurements. for students lacking the prerequisite. 
3584:Observed structure of the large-scale and mesoscale ocean circulation and its variability, based on modern observations. In-situ and remote sensing techniques, hydrographic structure, circulation patterns, ocean- atmosphere interactions. students lacking the prerequisite. 
3585:This seminar will examine the ways in which some types of behavior of random systems cannot only be predicted, but also applied to practical problems. 
3586:Many natural objects have complex, infinitely detailed shapes in which smaller versions of the whole shape are seen appearing throughout. Such a shape is a fractal, the topic of study. 
3587:Many natural objects have complex, infinitely detailed shapes in which smaller versions of the whole shape are seen appearing throughout. Such a shape is a fractal, the topic of study. 
3588:Through projects using software programs, Web sites, and readings, students will discover the geometric structure of tilings, learn to design their own patterns, and explore the many interdisciplinary connections. 
3589:Seminar will cover the history and philosophy of probability, evidence, and conjecture, consider the development of the field of probability, and look at current and future uses of probability. 
3590:Seminar will cover the history and philosophy of probability, evidence, and conjecture, consider the development of the field of probability, and look at current and future uses of probability. 
3591:The nature of space imposes striking constraints on organic and inorganic objects. This seminar examines such constraints on both biological organisms and regular solids in geometry. 
3592:With the growth of available information on almost anything, can it be reliably compressed, protected, and transmitted over a noisy channel? Students will take a mathematical view of cryptography throughout history and information handling in modern life. 
3593:With the growth of available information on almost anything, can it be reliably compressed, protected, and transmitted over a noisy channel? Students will take a mathematical view of cryptography throughout history and information handling in modern life. 
3594:The idea of a fourth dimension has a rich and varied history. This seminar explores the concept of fourth (and higher) dimensions both mathematically and more widely in human thought. 
3595:Students will explore the relevance of mathematical ideas to fields typically perceived as "nonmathematical" (e.g., art, music, film, literature) and how these "nonmathematical" fields influence mathematical thought. 
3596:Students will explore the relevance of mathematical ideas to fields typically perceived as "nonmathematical" (e.g., art, music, film, literature) and how these "nonmathematical" fields influence mathematical thought. 
3597:Problems arising from the arithmetic of ordinary counting numbers have for centuries fascinated both mathematicians and nonmathematicians. This seminar will consider some of these problems (both solved and unsolved). 
3598:This seminar introduces students to the thought process that goes into developing computational models of biological systems. It will also expose students to techniques for simulating and analyzing these models. 
3599:This seminar introduces students to the thought process that goes into developing computational models of biological systems. It will also expose students to techniques for simulating and analyzing these models. 
3600:This course will consider mathematics to be the science of patterns and will discuss some of the different kinds of patterns that give rise to different branches of mathematics. 
3601:Students will discuss combinatorics' deep roots in history, its connections with the theory of numbers, and its fundamental role for natural science, as well as various applications, including cryptography and the stock market. 
3602:Students will discuss combinatorics' deep roots in history, its connections with the theory of numbers, and its fundamental role for natural science, as well as various applications, including cryptography and the stock market. 
3603:Students will develop the conceptual framework necessary to understand waves of any kind, starting from laboratory observations. 
3604:Students will develop the conceptual framework necessary to understand waves of any kind, starting from laboratory observations. 
3605:Why is the Gulf Stream so strong, why does it flow clockwise, and why does it separate from the United States coast at Cape Hatteras? Students will study the circulation of the ocean and its influence on coastal environments by reading the book A View of the Sea by the eminent oceanographer Hank Stommel and by examining satellite and on-site observations. 
3606:Students will follow the intellectual journey of the atomic hypothesis from Leucippus and Democritus to the modern era, combining the history, the applications to science, and the mathematics developed to study particles and their interactions. 
3607:The seminar will investigate non-Euclidean geometry (hyperbolic and spherical) from historical, mathematical, and practical perspectives. The approach will be largely algebraic, in contrast to the traditional axiomatic method. 
3608:Is the Earth warming? Predictions are based largely on mathematical models. We shall consider the limitations of models in relation to making predictions. Examples of chaotic behavior will be presented. 
3609:Special topics course. Content will vary each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
3610:Special topics course. Content will vary each semester. 
3611:Placement by achievement test. Provides a one-semester review of the basics of algebra. Basic algebraic expressions, functions, exponents, and logarithms are included, with an emphasis on problem solving. This course should not be taken by those with a suitable score on the achievement test. 
3612:Provides an introduction in as nontechnical a setting as possible to the basic concepts of calculus. The course is intended for the nonscience major. A student may not receive credit for this course after receiving credit for MATH 152 or 231. 
3613:Introduction to basic concepts of finite mathematics, including topics such as counting methods, finite probability problems, and networks. The course is intended for the nonscience major. 
3614:Introduction to mathematical topics of current interest in society and science, such as the mathematics of choice, growth, finance, and shape. The course is intended for the nonscience major. 
3615:Provides an introduction to the use of mathematics for modeling real- world phenomena in a nontechnical setting. Models use algebraic, graphical, and numerical properties of elementary functions to interpret data. This course is intended for the nonscience major. 
3616:An introductory survey of differential and integral calculus with emphasis on techniques and applications of interest for business and the social sciences. This is a terminal course and not adequate preparation for MATH 232. A student cannot receive credit for this course after receiving credit for MATH 231 or 241. 
3617:An undergraduate seminar course that is designed to be a participatory intellectual adventure on an advanced, emergent, and stimulating topic within a selected discipline in mathematics. This course does not count as credit towards the mathematics major. 
3618:Limits, derivatives, and integrals of functions of one variable. Students may not receive credit for both MATH 231 and MATH 241. better in MATH 130 or placement by the department. 
3619:Calculus of the elementary transcendental functions, techniques of integration, indeterminate forms, Taylor's formula, infinite series. better in MATH 231 or 241 or placement by the department. 
3620:Vector algebra, solid analytic geometry, partial derivatives, multiple integrals. 
3621:Vector algebra, solid analytic geometry, partial derivatives, multiple integrals. 
3622:Limits, derivatives, and integrals of functions of one variable, motivated by and applied to discrete-time dynamical systems used to model various biological processes. Students may not receive credit for both MATH 231 and MATH 241. MATH 130 or placement by the department. 
3623:Techniques of integration, indeterminate forms, Taylor's series; introduction to linear algebra, motivated by and applied to ordinary differential equations; systems of ordinary differential equations used to model various biological processes. A student cannot receive credit for this course after receiving credit for MATH 383. better in either MATH 231 or 241, or placement by the department. 
3624:0 Credits. Permission of the instructor. A seminar on a chosen topic in mathematics in which the students participate more actively than in usual courses. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
3625:By permission of the director of undergraduate studies. Experimentation or deeper investigation under the supervision of a faculty member of topics in mathematics that may be, but need not be, connected with an existing course. No one may receive more than seven semester hours of credit for this course. Formerly offered as MATH 290. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 7 total credits. 7 total completions. 
3626:Central to teaching precollege mathematics is the need for an in-depth understanding of real numbers and algebra. This course explores this content, emphasizing problem solving and mathematical reasoning. 
3627:This course serves as a transition from computational to more theoretical mathematics. Topics are from the foundations of mathematics: logic, set theory, relations and functions, induction, permutations and combinations, recurrence. 
3628:Introductory ordinary differential equations, first- and second-order differential equations with applications, higher-order linear equations, systems of first-order linear equations (introducing linear algebra as needed). 
3629:Introductory ordinary differential equations, first- and second-order differential equations with applications, higher-order linear equations, systems of first-order linear equations (introducing linear algebra as needed). 
3630:Course is computational laboratory component designed to help students visualize ODE solutions in Matlab. Emphasis is on differential equations motivated by applied sciences. Some applied linear algebra will appear as needed for computation and modeling purposes. 
3631:Permission of the director of undergraduate studies. This course is intended mainly for students working on honors projects. No one may receive more than three semester hours credit for this course. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
3632:Special mathematical techniques in the theory and methods of biostatistics as related to the life sciences and public health. Includes brief review of calculus, selected topics from intermediate calculus, and introductory matrix theory for applications in biostatistics. 
3633:Study of how people learn and understand mathematics, based on research in mathematics, mathematics education, psychology, and cognitive science. This course is designed to prepare undergraduate mathematics majors to become excellent high school mathematics teachers. It involves field work in both the high school and college environments. 
3634:Permission of the instructor. An investigation of various ways elementary concepts in mathematics can be developed. Applications of the mathematics developed will be considered. 
3635:An examination of high school mathematics from an advanced perspective, including number systems and the behavior of functions and equations. Designed primarily for prospective or practicing high school teachers. 
3636:A general survey of the history of mathematics with emphasis on elementary mathematics. Some special problems will be treated in depth. 
3637:A grade of A- or better in STOR 215 may substitute for MATH 381. The real numbers, continuity and differentiability of functions of one variable, infinite series, integration. 
3638:A grade of A- or better in STOR 215 may substitute for MATH 381. The real numbers, continuity and differentiability of functions of one variable, infinite series, integration. 
3639:Functions of several variables, the derivative as a linear transformation, inverse and implicit function theorems, multiple integration. 
3640:Functions of several variables, the derivative as a linear transformation, inverse and implicit function theorems, multiple integration. 
3641:The algebra of complex numbers, elementary functions and their mapping properties, complex limits, power series, analytic functions, contour integrals, Cauchy's theorem and formulae, Laurent series and residue calculus, elementary conformal mapping and boundary value problems, Poisson integral formula for the disk and the half plane. 
3642:Linear differential equations, power series solutions, Laplace transforms, numerical methods. 
3643:Theory and applications of Laplace transform, Fourier series and transform, Sturm-Liouville problems. Students will be expected to do some numerical calculations on either a programmable calculator or a computer. This course has an optional computer laboratory component: MATH 528L. 
3644:Introduction to boundary value problems for the diffusion, Laplace and wave partial differential equations. Bessel functions and Legendre functions. Introduction to complex variables including the calculus of residues. This course has an optional computer laboratory component: MATH 529L. 
3645:Training in the use of symbolic and numerical computing packages and their application to the MATH 529 lecture topics. Students will need a CCI-compatible computing device. 
3646:A grade of A- or better in STOR 215 may substitute for MATH 381. Divisibility, Euclidean algorithm, congruences, residue classes, Euler's function, primitive roots, Chinese remainder theorem, quadratic residues, number-theoretic functions, Farey and continued fractions, Gaussian integers. 
3647:A grade of A- or better in STOR 215 may substitute for MATH 381. Binary operations, groups, subgroups, cosets, quotient groups, rings, polynomials. 
3648:Introduction to mathematical theory of probability covering random variables; moments; binomial, Poisson, normal and related distributions; generating functions; sums and sequences of random variables; and statistical applications. 
3649:Algebra of matrices with applications: determinants, solution of linear systems by Gaussian elimination, Gram-Schmidt procedure, eigenvalues. MATH 416 may not be taken for credit after credit has been granted for MATH 547. 
3650:Counting selections, binomial identities, inclusion-exclusion, recurrences, Catalan numbers. Selected topics from algorithmic and structural combinatorics, or from applications to physics and cryptography. 
3651:Introduction to topics in topology, particularly surface topology, including classification of compact surfaces, Euler characteristic, orientability, vector fields on surfaces, tessellations, and fundamental group. grade of A- or better in STOR 215 may substitute for MATH 381. 
3652:A grade of A- or better in STOR 215 may substitute for MATH 381. Critical study of basic notions and models of Euclidean and non-Euclidean geometries: order, congruence, and distance. 
3653:This course introduces analytical, computational, and statistical techniques, such as discrete models, numerical integration of ordinary differential equations, and likelihood functions, to explore various fields of biology. MATH 232 or STOR 155; Co-requisite, BIOL 553L/MATH 553L; permission of the instructor for students lacking the requisites. 
3654:This lab introduces analytical, computational, and statistical techniques, such as discrete models, numerical integration of ordinary differential equations, and likelihood functions, to explore various fields of biology. MATH 232 or STOR 155; Co-requisite, BIOL 553/MATH 553; Permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
3655:Topics will vary and may include iteration of maps, orbits, periodic points, attractors, symbolic dynamics, bifurcations, fractal sets, chaotic systems, systems arising from differential equations, iterated function systems, and applications. 
3656:Requires some knowledge of computer programming. Model validation and numerical simulations using ordinary, partial, stochastic, and delay differential equations. Applications to the life sciences may include muscle physiology, biological fluid dynamics, neurobiology, molecular regulatory networks, and cell biology. 
3657:Personal computer as tool in solving a variety of mathematical problems, e.g., finding roots of equations and approximate solutions to differential equations. Introduction to appropriate programming language; emphasis on graphics. 
3658:Requires some knowledge of computer programming. Iterative methods, interpolation, polynomial and spline approximations, numerical differentiation and integration, numerical solution of ordinary and partial differential equations. 
3659:Vector spaces, linear transformations, duality, diagonalization, primary and cyclic decomposition, Jordan canonical form, inner product spaces, orthogonal reduction of symmetric matrices, spectral theorem, bilinear forms, multilinear functions. A much more abstract course than MATH 416 or 547. STOR 215 may substitute for MATH 381. 
3660:Permutation groups, matrix groups, groups of linear transformations, symmetry groups; finite abelian groups. Residue class rings, algebra of matrices, linear maps, and polynomials. Real and complex numbers, rational functions, quadratic fields, finite fields. 
3661:Permission of the instructor. Topics may focus on matrix theory, analysis, algebra, geometry, or applied and computational mathematics. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
3662:Interdisciplinary introduction to nonlinear dynamics and chaos. Fixed points, bifurcations, strange attractors, with applications to physics, biology, chemistry, finance. students lacking the prerequisite. 
3663:Foundations of probability. Basic classical theorems. Modes of probabilistic convergence. Central limit problem. Generating functions, characteristic functions. Conditional probability and expectation. students lacking the prerequisite. 
3664:Basic counting; partitions; recursions and generating functions; signed enumeration; counting with respect to symmetry, plane partitions, and tableaux. 
3665:Graph theory, matchings, Ramsey theory, extremal set theory, network flows, lattices, Moebius inversion, q-analogs, combinatorial and projective geometries, codes, and designs. 
3666:Requires knowledge of advanced calculus. Elementary metric space topology, continuous functions, differentiation of vector-valued functions, implicit and inverse function theorems. Topics from Weierstrass theorem, existence and uniqueness theorems for differential equations, series of functions. 
3667:A rigorous treatment of complex integration, including the Cauchy theory. Elementary special functions, power series, local behavior of analytic functions. 
3668:Requires knowledge of linear algebra. Existence and uniqueness theorems, linear and nonlinear systems, differential equations in the plane and on surfaces, Poincare-Bendixson theory, Lyapunov stability and structural stability, critical point analysis. 
3669:Requires some programming experience and basic numerical analysis. Error in computation, solutions of nonlinear equations, interpolation, approximation of functions, Fourier methods, numerical integration and differentiation, introduction to numerical solution of ODEs, Gaussian elimination. 
3670:Theory and practical issues arising in linear algebra problems derived from physical applications, e.g., discretization of ODEs and PDEs. Linear systems, linear least squares, eigenvalue problems, singular value decomposition. 
3671:Perturbation methods for ODEs and PDEs, WKBJ method, averaging and modulation theory for linear and nonlinear wave equations, long- time asymptotics of Fourier integral representations of PDEs, Green's functions, dynamical systems tools. 
3672:Requires knowledge of linear algebra and algebraic structures. Modules over rings, canonical forms for linear operators and bilinear forms, multilinear algebra, groups and group actions. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
3673:Internal structure of groups, Sylow theorems, generators and relations, group representations, fields, Galois theory, category theory. 
3674:Topics include (curves) Frenet formulas, isoperimetric inequality, theorems of Crofton, Fenchel, Fary-Milnor; (surfaces) fundamental forms, Gaussian and mean curvature, special surfaces, geodesics, Gauss-Bonnet theorem. 
3675:Topological spaces, connectedness, separation axioms, product spaces, extension theorems. Classification of surfaces, fundamental group, covering spaces. 
3676:Permission of the department. Directed study of an advanced topic in mathematics. Topics will vary. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
3677:Permission of the director of undergraduate studies. Readings in mathematics and the beginning of directed research on an honors thesis. 
3678:Permission of the director of undergraduate studies. Completion of an honors thesis under the direction of a member of the faculty. Required of all candidates for graduation with honors in mathematics. 
3679:Selected aspects of microorganisms that cause infectious diseases, how new infectious diseases emerge, what bioterrorism is and how we are trying to counteract it in the United States, and how changes in the food supply have presented new infectious disease challenges. 
3680:Required preparation, one semester of a basic undergraduate science class. An introductory course in microbiology that focuses on the structure, biology, and genetics of microbes in relation to human disease and the immune system. For students planning careers in pharmacy, nursing, dental hygiene, and related fields. A laboratory is required. Students may not receive credit for both MCRO 251 and MCRO 255. 
3681:Required preparation, one semester of a basic undergraduate science class. An introductory course in microbiology that focuses on the structure, biology, and genetics of microbes in relation to human disease and the immune system. For students planning careers in pharmacy, nursing, dental hygiene, and related fields. A laboratory is required. Students may not receive credit for both MCRO 251 and MCRO 255. 
3682:This course provides a general overview of the evolution, organization, and function of the immune system. Instruction will be inquiry-based with extensive use of informational and instructional technology tools. students lacking the prerequisite. 
3683:Open only to dental students. A course covering basic aspects of microbiology and immunology including sterilization, action of antimicrobial chemotherapeutic agents, concepts of infection and immunity, and the study of certain selected infectious agents. 
3684:A strong background in molecular biology, eukaryotic genetics, and biochemistry is required. Advanced survey course with topics that include molecular recognition, genetic mechanisms of host resistance, development of cells and cell interactions; hypersensitivity, autoimmunity, and resistance to infection. Course material from textbook and primary literature. 
3685:Required preparation, coursework in molecular biology and cell biology. Current concepts of the chemistry, structure, replication, genetics, and the natural history of animal viruses and their host cells. 
3686:Required preparation for undergraduates, at least one undergraduate course in both biochemistry and genetics. DNA structure, function, and interactions in prokaryotic and eukaryotic systems, including chromosome structure, replication, recombination, repair, and genome fluidity. Three lecture hours a week. 
3687:Required preparation for undergraduates, at least one undergraduate course in both biochemistry and genetics. The purpose of this course is to provide historical, basic, and current information about the flow and regulation of genetic information from DNA to RNA in a variety of biological systems. Three lecture hours a week. 
3688:Permission of the instructor. Required preparation, coursework in molecular biology and genetics. Topics will include aspects of basic bacteriology as well as bacterial and fungal pathogens and mechanisms of disease. 
3689:Permission of the instructor or a fundamental understanding of molecular virology and immunology. Molecular pathogenesis, with a primary focus on viral pathogens. Additional topics include vaccines and genetics of host-pathogen interactions. 
3690:Comprehensive introduction to cell structure, function, and transformation. permission of the instructor. 
3691:Comprehensive introduction to cell structure, function, and transformation. permission of the instructor. 
3692:Permission of the department except for department majors. Designed to introduce the student to research methods. Minor investigative problems are conducted with advice and guidance of the staff. Hours and credit to be arranged, any term. May be repeated for credit two or more semesters. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 15 total credits. 5 total completions. 
3693:This course is designed to enhance the military science curriculum while providing the opportunity for hands-on practice of leadership fundamentals and the education received during ARMY 101, 102, 201, 202, 301, 302, 401, and 402. Requirement for cadets. 
3694:This course introduces students to the personal challenges and competencies that are critical for effective leadership. Students learn how the personal development of life skills such as critical thinking, time management, goal setting, stress management, and comprehensive fitness relate to leadership and the Army profession. Required for cadets. 
3695:Builds on ARMY 101 by offering an introduction to the personal challenges and competencies that are critical for adaptive leadership. Students learn the basics of the communication process and the importance for leaders to develop the essential skills to communicate effectively in the Army. Required for cadets. 
3696:Permission of the department. A detailed examination of current topics regarding the U.S. Army. Provides a course for Army ROTC cadets who require additional coursework to meet commissioning and/or scholarship requirements due to extenuating circumstances. 
3697:Permission of the department and the instructor. A course learning contract is required. Any student wishing to further their Army Leadership study or unable to schedule military science courses during their allotted time frames to maintain Army enrollment requirements may enroll. 
3698:This course explores the dimensions of creative and innovative tactical leadership strategies and styles by examining team dynamics and two historical leadership theories that form the basis of the Army leadership framework. Aspects of personal motivation and team building are practiced by planning, executing, and assessing team exercises. Required for cadets. 
3699:This course examines the challenges of leading teams in the complex operational environment. Highlights dimensions of terrain analysis, patrolling, and operation orders. Further study of the theoretical basis of the Army leadership requirements model explores the dynamics of adaptive leadership in the context of military operations. Required for cadets. 
3700:Students will study, practice, and apply the fundamentals of Army leadership, values, and ethics; personal development; and small unit tactics at the platoon level. At the conclusion of this course, students will be capable of planning, coordinating, navigating, motivating, and leading a squad and platoon in the execution of a mission. Required for cadets. the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
3701:Students will study, practice, and apply the fundamentals of Army leadership, values, and ethics; personal development; and small unit tactics at the platoon level. At the conclusion of this course, students will be capable of planning, coordinating, navigating, motivating, and leading a squad and platoon in the execution of a mission. Required for cadets. the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
3702:Permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. This advanced course places primary emphasis on officership with MS IV cadets. ARMY 401 and 402 together refine and ultimately complete the cadet-to-commissioned-officer transition. This course focuses on mission command philosophy and ethical leadership. Required for cadets. 
3703:In this final semester of a four-year developmental leadership experience, cadets are undergoing preparation for the duties and responsibilities of a commissioned officer along with their integration into the Army. Emphasis is on critical knowledge, skills, abilities, and competencies new officers will need to succeed in their first unit of assignment. Required for cadets. instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
3704:Provides leadership training in a military environment. Professional development through academics, team building events, physical fitness, marksmanship, and leadership exercises. Course culminates in a simulated expeditionary deployment to a combat zone. 
3705:Acoustics and music from a practical standpoint. 
3706:Oklahoma!, Carousel, and South Pacific in their political, social, and cultural contexts. 
3707:A sociomusical study of rock 'n' roll in its first decades. 
3708:The perceived and actual relationships between music and magic in a range of historical periods. 
3709:Music and drama in Renaissance plays within the pastoral tradition. 
3710:Music and spectacle in the late medieval, Renaissance, and baroque courts of Europe. 
3711:Textual and musical analysis of Verdi's operas (libretto and score) in their sociohistorical contexts. 
3712:The relationship and interplay between musical genres and social dance in different communities and eras. 
3713:The relationship between music and the visual arts in the modernist and postmodernist periods viewed in their historical contexts. 
3714:Music in, and musical settings of, American literature of the Romantic, modern, and postmodern periods. 
3715:Musical crossovers in world musics and societies. 
3716:Vienna in the early 1900s as a locus for modernism. 
3717:Vienna in the early 1900s as a locus for modernism. 
3718:Offers tools and techniques for understanding multimedia, staged musical works like opera, musical theater, and film. The goal of the seminar is to develop students' analytical skills in verbal and nonverbal media and to encourage their visualization of the potential and implications of artistic forms and structures. 
3719:Offers tools and techniques for understanding multimedia, staged musical works like opera, musical theater, and film. The goal of the seminar is to develop students' analytical skills in verbal and nonverbal media and to encourage their visualization of the potential and implications of artistic forms and structures. 
3720:Musical aesthetics, musical works, and the nature of musical art. 
3721:This seminar focuses on the variety of performances presented by Carolina Performing Arts at Memorial Hall. Through attendance at performances and through research on the performing artists and the works being performed, students explore questions such as, How does music reflect culture? How does the culture shape the art form? 
3722:Special topics course. Content will vary each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
3723:Special topics course. Content will vary each semester. 
3724:-1 Credits. Individual lessons in piano, organ, or harpsichord. Sections by instructor. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 8 total credits. 8 total completions. 
3725:-1 Credits. Sections by instructor. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 8 total credits. 8 total completions. 
3726:-1 Credits. Individual lessons in violin, viola, cello, string bass, harp, or guitar. Sections by instructor. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 8 total credits. 8 total completions. 
3727:-1 Credits. Individual lessons in flute, oboe, clarinet, saxophone, bassoon, or recorder. Sections by instructor. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 8 total credits. 8 total completions. 
3728:-1 Credits. Individual lessons in horn, trumpet, trombone, tuba, or euphonium. Sections by instructor. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 8 total credits. 8 total completions. 
3729:-1 Credits. Group or individual instruction in a specified instrument offered by the department. Sections by instructor. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 8 total credits. 8 total completions. 
3730:Beginning group piano for minors and nonmajors, including introduction to reading from score. May not count for music or general elective credit for music majors. Sections by instructor. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 8 total credits. 8 total completions. 
3731:Beginning and intermediate group lessons for minors and nonmajors. Sections by instructor. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 8 total credits. 8 total completions. 
3732:Group lessons in violin, viola, cello, string bass, or guitar. Sections by instructor. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 8 total credits. 8 total completions. 
3733:Group lessons in flute, oboe, clarinet, saxophone, bassoon, or recorder. Sections by instructor. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 8 total credits. 8 total completions. 
3734:Group lessons in horn, trumpet, trombone, tuba, or euphonium. Sections by instructor. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 8 total credits. 8 total completions. 
3735:Sections by instructor. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 8 total credits. 8 total completions. 
3736:An introduction to concepts and methods fundamental to the study, practice, and performance of music. The course provides a foundation for undergraduate students interested in the study of music. Students will gain an appreciation for music's significance across repertories and develop the aptitude to think about music in different ways. 
3737:Notational and theoretical materials of music, with musicianship skills developed. Intended for the nonmajor who wishes to learn to express musical ideas in clear, correct notational form. 
3738:A continuation of MUSC 121 with the addition of basic instrumentation and arranging. 
3739:Basic principles of diction for singers in English/Italian presented through the use of the International Phonetic Alphabet. 
3740:Basic principles of diction and the International Phonetic Alphabet for singers in French. 
3741:Basic principles of diction and the International Phonetic Alphabet for singers in German. 
3742:Basic musicianship skills, including music notation, basic composition, score analysis, keyboard, sight singing, and ear training. 
3743:Enrollment subject to a placement test. An introduction to music theory and analysis for students who intend to pursue a music degree. Course covers basic principles of melody, counterpoint, rhythm, and meter. 
3744:Enrollment subject to a placement test. An introduction to music theory and analysis for students who intend to pursue a music degree. Course covers basic principles of melody, counterpoint, rhythm, and meter. 
3745:A continuation of MUSC 131, covering more advanced topics of melody, harmony, counterpoint, rhythm, meter, and form. better. 
3746:A continuation of MUSC 131, covering more advanced topics of melody, harmony, counterpoint, rhythm, meter, and form. better. 
3747:A continuation of MUSC 130, with emphasis on intermediate-level musicianship skills. 
3748:An introduction to the musical materials of jazz, including chord/scale relationships, functional keyboard skills, and harmonic analysis. 
3749:Beginning group piano instruction for music majors. 
3750:May not count for music or general elective credit for music majors. A chronological survey of the history of Western art music from roughly 1500 to the present. 
3751:May not count for music or general elective credit for music majors. The study of selected works from the Western art tradition, with an emphasis on critical understanding. 
3752:A survey of rock music history, culture, and musical styles. The course includes extensive listening and an overview of the music's development and evolution. 
3753:A survey and investigation of country music from 1920 to the present. This course addresses the music, history, culture, and meaning, across a broad and inclusive of styles, with, with emphasis on critical listening. 
3754:A survey of jazz music from its origins to the present. The course builds skills in critical listening and blends discussion of musical materials and historical and cultural contexts. 
3755:The study of music in and as culture. Topics may include the performance cultures of Native America, south Asia, Australia, Africa, east Asia, Southeast Asia, Europe, and the Americas. 
3756:An introduction to contemporary Latin(o) American popular music, focusing on how musicians have negotiated an increasingly global popular culture industry. 
3757:An introduction to black musical cultures with a focus on understanding how music is made within social, geographical, and political contexts. The course includes experiential learning, live concert attendance, and conversations with practicing musicians in various musical traditions. 
3758:An exploration of the important, often misunderstood role of the DJ in modern musical life, with particular attention to the ways in which DJing challenges traditional notions of music, musicianship, and musical instruments. Guest lectures, demonstrations, and tutorials by visiting DJs form a significant component of the course. 
3759:An introductory hands-on study of the composition of electronic instrumental tracks for hip-hop and dance music. Students make beats, learn about the history and culture of the art form, and examine beat making as a case study in entrepreneurship. 
3760:A hands-on study of the art of emceeing. Students engage in a rigorous lyricism curriculum, developing the skills to write, recite, and improvise lyrics in live and recorded settings. Students also explore the history of hip-hop culture and analyze the aesthetics of emcees from around the world. 
3761:An introduction to issues of performance practice in rock music and related styles and genres including, but not limited to, soul, funk, new wave, and punk. Through intensive coaching and rehearsal students learn performance, transcription, arranging, and improvisation. 
3762:An introductory course in the development of improvisational skills for the jazz idiom. The primary focus is the introduction of nomenclature, the development of basic jazz vocabulary, and the application of this knowledge using basic jazz tune types. 
3763:This course provides a comprehensive overview of the music of South Asia, focusing on India, Pakistan, and Bangladesh. The entire spectrum of musical genres will be covered. 
3764:The study of compositional techniques and the development of individual creative styles through imitative and original writing. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 
3765:Basic conducting techniques, score reading, and music performance evaluation for choral and instrumental groups. 
3766:The role of women in performance, composition, patronage, and the music business across a wide range of repertories. 
3767:Advanced individual lessons in piano, organ, or harpsichord. Sections by instructor. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics. 
3768:Advanced individual lessons in piano, organ, or harpsichord. Sections by instructor. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics. 
3769:Sections by instructor. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics. 
3770:Sections by instructor. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics. 
3771:Advanced individual lessons in violin, viola, cello, string bass, harp, or guitar. Sections by instructor. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics. 
3772:Advanced individual lessons in violin, viola, cello, string bass, harp, or guitar. Sections by instructor. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics. 
3773:Advanced individual lessons in flute, oboe, clarinet, saxophone, or bassoon. Sections by instructor. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics. 
3774:Advanced individual lessons in flute, oboe, clarinet, saxophone, or bassoon. Sections by instructor. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics. 
3775:Advanced individual lessons in horn, trumpet, trombone, tuba, or euphonium. Sections by instructor. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics. 
3776:Advanced individual lessons in horn, trumpet, trombone, tuba or euphonium. Sections by instructor. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics. 
3777:Sections by instructor. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics. 
3778:Sections by instructor. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics. 
3779:Advanced instruction in a specified instrument offered by the department. Sections by instructor. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 
3780:Sections by ensemble: Symphony Orchestra, Wind Ensemble, Symphony Band, Carolina Choir, Chamber Singers, Men's Glee Club, Women's Glee Club, Piano Ensemble I, Piano Ensemble II, Collaborative Piano, Guitar Ensemble, Jazz Band. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics. 
3781:Sections by ensemble: UNC Opera, Percussion Ensemble, Gamelan, Charanga Carolina, Global Rhythms, Bluegrass Band. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics. 
3782:Sections by ensemble: Marching/ Pep Band, Jazz Lab Band, Chamber Orchestra, University Band. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics. 
3783:Sections by ensemble: University Chamber Players, String Chamber Ensembles, Woodwind Chamber Ensembles, Brass Chamber Ensembles, Piano Chamber Ensembles, Jazz Combos, Baroque Ensemble/Viol Consort, New Music Ensemble. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 8 total credits. 8 total completions. 
3784:Sections by ensemble: University Chamber Players, String Chamber Ensembles, Woodwind Chamber Ensembles, Brass Chamber Ensembles, Piano Chamber Ensembles, Jazz Combos, Baroque Ensemble/Viol Consort, New Music Ensemble. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 8 total credits. 8 total completions. 
3785:Survey of keyboard literature from the Baroque era to the present. 
3786:Problems, materials, and methods of teaching piano to students of all ages. 
3787:Practical methodology for teaching voice to students of all experience levels. Topics covered include anatomy, historical pedagogy, national vocal teaching styles, and current trends in voice science. 
3788:Primarily for students pursing teacher licensure. An introduction to basic performance skills on representative woodwind, brass, percussion, and string instruments. 
3789:Primarily for students pursuing teacher licensure. An introduction to basic performance skills in voice and piano, and approaches to teaching elementary music. 
3790:A continuation of MUSC 226 and 227, allowing students the opportunity to develop further performance skills and pedagogical techniques in music education. Offered in sections: instrumental, vocal, strings. 
3791:A continuation of MUSC 133, with emphasis on intermediate- to advanced-level musicianship skills. 
3792:A continuation of MUSC 132, covering topics including chromatic harmony and form. better. 
3793:A continuation of MUSC 132, covering topics including chromatic harmony and form. better. 
3794:The study of vocal and instrumental performances practices in specific periods and repertories. 
3795:Through the use of various ethnomusicological methodologies, students explore a range of non-Western musical systems in their cultural contexts. Topics of study may include aesthetic theories, cultural meaning, and conflict. 
3796:Prerequisite MUSC 136. Continues group piano instruction for music majors begun in MUSC 136. 
3797:A practical study of selected aspects of computerized music technology, including one or more of music-notation software, MIDI sequencing, digital sound production and storage, and computer composition. 
3798:The study and comparison of contemporary Southeast Asian performance genres (music, theatre, dance, ritual) in historical and cultural contexts. 
3799:This course is concerned with the performance and interpretation of Indonesian dance. It covers three areas of study: practical learning of traditional Indonesian dance repertoire, theoretical analyses and interpretation, and learning the music accompanying the dance. 
3800:An examination and exploration of women's changing roles and influence, onstage and behind the scenes, in the history of opera. 
3801:A survey of music's development from antiquity to 1750, in its stylistic, geographical, political, social, and cultural contexts. students lacking the prerequisite. 
3802:A continuation of MUSC 254, surveying music of the period since 1750 in its stylistic, geographical, political, social, and cultural contexts. instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
3803:The musical results of migrations of all types, voluntary or forced, by way of case studies drawn from historical and/or contemporary musics of Africa, the Americas, Asia, and Europe. 
3804:Continuation of MUSC 163, examining more advanced improvisational techniques, harmonic materials, and compositional tune types. 
3805:Composing and arranging for small- and large-group jazz ensembles. 
3806:May be repeated for credit. Original compositions in various forms. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 
3807:Practical orchestral scoring with emphasis on understanding and imitating historical styles from Mozart through Ravel. 
3808:Connecting academic inquiry in community music with an experiential project in the making, organization, or documentation of music locally. 
3809:Musical, historical, cultural, and social issues in jazz studied through the examination of innovative and influential jazz artists. 
3810:The relationship between popular song and culture in American society is explored by focusing on an important historical repertoire or interpretive theme. 
3811:May not count for music or general elective credit for music majors. The culmination of baroque music, emphasizing Bach's cantatas, concertos, organ music, and instrumental music, and Handel's oratorios and operas, all in their cultural contexts. 
3812:May not count for music or general elective credit for music majors. The high point in Viennese music of the late 18th century, emphasizing Haydn's symphonies and quartets, and Mozart's operas and piano concertos. 
3813:May not count for music or general elective credit for music majors. Beethoven's music will be studied in the context of social structures and concepts about artists during his lifetime. 
3814:May not count for music or general elective credit for music majors. A study of the work of diverse composers characteristic of music since ca. 1880 viewed in their broader artistic and other contexts. 
3815:May be repeated for credit if on a different topic. May not count for music or general elective credit for music majors. Music in the framework of its social, political, economic, and cultural contexts. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
3816:May not count for music or general elective credit for music majors. An introduction to music as related to drama, especially the development of opera and related genres. Study of selected works from different periods and styles. 
3817:May not count for music or general elective credit for music majors. An introduction to music as related to drama, especially the development of opera and related genres. Study of selected works from different periods and styles. 
3818:May not count for music or general elective credit for music majors. Study of the symphony orchestra, its instruments, and its historical development from the mid-18th century to the present, and the music it plays, including selected works in a variety of styles. 
3819:Music's roles in war and revolution within various political, social, and cultural contexts. Part of the cluster "War, Revolution and Culture- Transatlantic Perspectives, 1750-1850. 
3820:The relationship between music and politics studied through a global range of historical and geographical contexts. The course covers specific musical and political manifestations as well as theoretical approaches to the issue. 
3821:The historical and ongoing tradition of protest by African artists with particular focus on the aesthetics, politics, and geography of innovative grassroots movements on the African continent that effect social change through music and film. 
3822:The history, culture, musical sound, and practice of bluegrass music, with an intensive focus on critical listening. Covers significant performers, musical styles, and both fan and performance culture and meaning. 
3823:Available only to music majors by permission of the director of undergraduate studies. Intensive study on a particular topic under faculty supervision. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 6 total completions. 
3824:Advanced individual keyboard lessons leading to a public recital. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
3825:Advanced individual keyboard lessons leading to a public recital. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
3826:Advanced individual voice lessons leading to a public recital. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
3827:Advanced individual voice lessons leading to a public recital. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
3828:Advanced individual string lessons leading to a public recital. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
3829:Advanced individual string lessons leading to a public recital. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
3830:Advanced individual woodwind lessons leading to a public recital. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
3831:Advanced individual woodwind lessons leading to a public recital. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
3832:Advanced individual brass lessons leading to a public recital. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
3833:Advanced individual brass lessons leading to a public recital. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
3834:Advanced individual percussion lessons leading to a public recital. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
3835:This course is conceived as a culminating project that showcases a student's original musical compositions. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
3836:Intermediate conducting for instrumental or vocal ensembles. 
3837:May be repeated for up to six hours of credit. Advanced conducting for instrumental or choral ensembles. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
3838:Permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisite. The study of analytical techniques as applied to significant works of the period. 
3839:Permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisite. The study of two-, three-, and four-voice counterpoint, for example in the style of Palestrina, Bach, or 20th-century idioms. 
3840:Permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisite. Analysis and transcription of blues, rock, ballads, and jazz, with an emphasis on rock music since 1955. 
3841:Permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisite. The study of analytical techniques as applied to significant works of the period. 
3842:Course will address a particular genre, composer, compositional issue, or repertoire, including non-Western and popular musics. Subject matter will vary with the instructor. May be repeated for credit if on a different topic. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
3843:Course will address a particular genre, composer, compositional issue, or repertoire, including non-Western and popular musics. Subject matter will vary with the instructor. May be repeated for credit if on a different topic. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
3844:May be repeated for credit if on a different topic. Advanced study on a selected topic in jazz. Topics will vary and may address a particular genre, composer, performance practice, compositional issue, or repertoire. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
3845:Lectures on theory and improvisation, small ensemble coaching, and instrument-specific master classes in a classroom/lecture format. Intensive listening component through required attendance at four evening concerts. Final public student concert for a community audience. Can be repeated for credit. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
3846:Detailed investigation of a specific musical topic from historical and/or theoretical perspectives. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
3847:Detailed investigation of a specific musical topic from historical and/or theoretical perspectives. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
3848:Advanced study of selected performance issues. Maybe repeated for credit. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
3849:Permission of the director of undergraduate studies. Internship directly related to the study, practice, or the business of music. Students must complete at least 100 hours and submit a journal and report upon completion of the internship. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
3850:Permission of the instructor for undergraduates. Intended for students from various majors, this course provides a foundation in the history, theory, and practice of developing live, technologically-intensive, multimedia performance works. The course analyzes new media masterworks, addresses techniques of interdisciplinary collaboration, and offers workshops in specific software/technology applications. 
3851:Admission by permission of the honors advisor. Independent study by a student who has been designated a candidate for undergraduate honors in music. 
3852:Continuance and completion of an honors thesis in music. 
3853:Fundamental orientation to the Naval service emphasizing the mission, organization, regulations, customs and traditions, broad warfare components, and major challenges facing Navy/Marine Corps officers. 
3854:Permission of the department. Seminar of topics regarding the United States Navy. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
3855:Permission of the department. Readings and research by an individual student on a subject related to the United States Navy. 
3856:A study of organizational principles, management theory, and leadership styles, with emphasis on applications in the Navy and Department of Defense. 
3857:A comprehensive study of the theory, principles, and procedures of ship navigation, movements, and employment. Course includes spherical trigonometry, mathematics, analysis, study and practices of navigation, sextants, navigation publications, and report logs. Covers rules of the road, lights, signals, navigational aids, and electronic and mechanical positioning devices. 
3858:Practical application of the theories and principles of navigation as presented in the lecture series. 
3859:One laboratory hour per week designed to introduce topics and activities relevant to the professional development of the prospective Marine Corps officer. Required for Marine Option 2/C. 
3860:An introductory course and survey of ship design, characteristics, propulsion (including nuclear power) and control systems, and the principles of ship stability. 
3861:A descriptive survey course in engineering aspects of ships' weapons guidance, control, and propulsion systems and characteristics of ships' weapons systems. 
3862:Survey of the evolution of warfare through the study of selected campaigns and classic battles, with special emphasis on the principles of war, the military impact of leadership, and the evolution of tactics and weaponry. 
3863:A study of the maneuvering of ships in formation, and the operations in which naval vessels engage daily. 
3864:Capstone leadership course in NROTC curriculum, emphasizing leadership skills and their ethical implications for the competent commissioned officer in areas of human resources and material management. 
3865:A survey of the projection of sea power ashore, with special emphasis on the evolution of amphibious warfare in the 20th century, through the study of historical amphibious landings and campaigns. 
3866:Required of all NROTC students. Meets once a week to provide supplemental military training, including close order drill, physical fitness, inspections, guest lectures, and leadership training. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 0 total credits. 8 total completions. 
3867:Introduction to food studies covering a variety of topics including how food was consumed over history, land use and aquaculture, food in the arts, food and culture in the American South, food politics, and nutrition science. 
3868:Relationships of human nutrition to health and disease. Integration of biology, chemistry, and social sciences as related to human function. Nutrient composition of foods and safety of the food supply. 
3869:Examines the intersection of local foods and public health with respect to nutrition and environmental, economic, and community issues. Students explore impacts and potential solutions of the increasingly industrialized and centralized food system, while assisting community partners to increase opportunities for farmers, local food marketers, distributors, and entrepreneurs. 
3870:Permission of the instructor. For undergraduates enrolled in the department's baccalaureate degree program. Directed readings or laboratory study on a selected topic. May be taken more than once for credit. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
3871:Function of the human body focusing on nutrient interaction. Review of structure and function of cells and organs. For advanced undergraduates and graduate students needing to enhance background prior to NUTR 600. permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
3872:Cell biochemistry and physiology emphasizing integration of proteins, carbohydrates, and lipids in whole-body metabolism; regulation of energy expenditure, food intake, metabolic adaptations, and gene expression; and macronutrient-related diseases (atherosclerosis, obesity). students lacking the prerequisite. 
3873:This course covers nutrition during the life cycle. Units include women during preconception, pregnancy, and lactation; infancy; childhood; adolescence; and older adults (65+). Nutrient and energy needs, assessment of nutritional status, and cultural and socioeconomic barriers are discussed for each phase. 
3874:Cell biochemistry and physiology emphasizing metabolism of vitamins and minerals including antioxidant protection, immune function, nutrient control of gene expression, and disease states induced by deficiencies (e.g., iron-deficient anemia). instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
3875:Course teaches the future nutrition professional the art and science of communicating with individuals, groups, and the public. Students will enhance cultural awareness, practice counseling individuals and facilitating groups, and frame nutrition messages for mass media including social media. students lacking the prerequisite. 
3876:Course designed to examine the rationale and implementation of diet therapy and nutrition support in the prevention or treatment of chronic disease. 
3877:Course designed to examine the rationale and implementation of diet therapy and nutrition support in the prevention or treatment of acute diseases. 
3878:Introduction to foods, chemical and physical properties, nutritional composition, food safety, production, and regulation. 
3879:Basic culinary techniques. Classes illustrate biochemical processes and food properties covered in lecture. Introduction to new foods and food ideas. Critical evaluation of recipes. Laboratory fee required. Three laboratory hours per week. 
3880:Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Basic concepts of institutional food service systems management applied to small and medium-sized health care facilities in the community. 
3881:This is a food service management practicum that applies the basic concepts of institutional food service systems. Two laboratory hours per week. 
3882:Permission of the instructor. Directed readings or laboratory study of a selected topic. Requires a written proposal to be submitted to and approved by the B.S.P.H. Committee and faculty research director. A written report is required. May be taken more than once for credit. Six laboratory hours per week. 
3883:Permission of the instructor. Individual arrangements with faculty for bachelor and master students to participate in ongoing research. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 8 total completions. 
3884:Permission of the instructor. Reading and tutorial guidance in special areas of nutrition. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 8 total completions. 
3885:Open to all undergraduates. An overview of basic human molecular and cellular biology in the setting of common human diseases. The course emphasizes how an understanding of disease mechanisms provides the knowledge base for informed use of modern health care. Does not count as a course in the major. 
3886:Content varies by semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
3887:Overview of the policymaking process and of major public policy issues. Study of policy and political challenges in areas such as economic and tax policy, the social safety net, income support and the minimum wage, health care, education, environment and energy, foreign policy and national security, and homeland security. 
3888:Students quantify global depletion of energy resources and accompanying environmental degradation, hence discovering the profound changes in attitudes and behavior required to adjust to diminished fossil fuels and modified climate. 
3889:Global issues are challenges whose sources, impacts, and solutions extend beyond the borders of any one country. This course introduces students to some of the most pressing issues facing populations around the globe and to possible policy responses. 
3890:A survey of the geographic structure of human activity in major world regions and nations. Emphasizes current developments related to population, urbanization, and economic activity. (Core) 
3891:Comparative colonialism, nationalism, revolution, and independence movements. Topics include Indonesia and the Dutch, Indochina under French rule, United States involvement in the Philippines and Vietnam, communist and peasant movements, Cambodian revolution. 
3892:Comparative and interdisciplinary introduction to China and Japan in the 19th and 20th centuries, focusing on impact of the West, nation building, industrialization, and evolution of mass society. 
3893:The analysis of politics among nations. 
3894:The analysis of politics among nations. 
3895:The history of European international politics from the outbreak of the Thirty Years War to the Congress of Vienna. Considers the sources of national power, the reasons for war, and the changing nature of diplomacy. 
3896:The history of international politics from the fall of Napoleon to the end of the Second World War, with special attention to European nationalism, imperialism, the emergence of non-European great powers, the reasons for war, and the search for peace. 
3897:A survey of the Cold War from its origins in the aftermath of the Second World War to its conclusion in the late 1980s. Focuses on the geopolitical, military, ideological, and economic aspects of the global superpower conflict. 
3898:The influence of sea power on international affairs will be surveyed from ancient times to the present. Emphasis on United States naval history and its interaction with diplomacy, economics, and technology. 
3899:Examines air power theory and practice from 1914 to the present. Focuses on the application of air power as an instrument of war and the effectiveness of that application. 
3900:Examines approaches to American politics and public policy and analyzes why government responds to problems in predictable ways. 
3901:The course explores major periods and trends in Israeli cinema. Focus is given to issues pertaining to gender, ethnicity, and the construction of national identity. 
3902:A critical examination of the significance of the Thirty Years' War for 17th- century Europe's social, religious, military, and geopolitical history. The representation of the conflict in art and literature also receives attention. 
3903:Examines international organizations and their relationships with and impact upon international politics, international law, and selected global issues. 
3904:An examination of selected topics in international relations, such as security and defense, international integration, and north-south relations. 
3905:A critical examination, from the Renaissance to the Napoleonic period, of the changes in European land and naval warfare and their impact on society and government. 
3906:Draws on historical, political, economic, and sociological perspectives to analyze social, cultural, and institutional change. 
3907:Anti-Semitism; the Jews of Europe; the Hitler dictatorship; evolution of Nazi Jewish policy from persecution to the Final Solution; Jewish response; collaborators, bystanders, and rescuers; aftermath. 
3908:The course explores the dramatic historical changes from 1750 to 1850 and their intersection with and reflection in arts, literature, and music in a trans-Atlantic perspective. 
3909:An analysis of ethical issues that arise in peace, war, and defense, e.g., the legitimacy of states, just war theory, terrorism, weapons of mass destruction. 
3910:History of Iraq from ancient times to the present. 
3911:Explores the conflict over Palestine during the last 100 years. Surveys the development of competing nationalisms, the contest for resources and political control that led to the partition of the region, the war that established a Jewish state, and the subsequent struggles between conflicting groups for land and independence. 
3912:Cross-cultural perspectives on war in its relation to society, including Western and non-Western examples. Surveys political, economic, and cultural approaches to warfare and peacemaking. 
3913:An examination of the origins of the Pacific War, the course of this bitter and momentous conflict, and its complex legacy for both Asia and the United States. 
3914:This course investigates how philosophical thought motivates, inspires, and generates forms of agency and identity against cultural tendencies that limit or erode freedom. Readings, lecture, and discussion in English. 
3915:Introduction to the study of strategic decision making in international relations, with an emphasis on the application of basic game theoretic models. Incorporates in-class simulations of international relations scenarios. 
3916:Music's roles in war and revolution within various political, social, and cultural contexts. Part of the cluster "War, Revolution and Culture- Transatlantic Perspectives, 1750-1850. 
3917:Introduction to the problem of war and violent conflict in human experience and the contemporary world, and efforts to prevent, avoid, or ameliorate war and its effects. Content will vary by instructor and disciplinary perspective but will include causes of war, deterrence, irregular war, and the future of war. 
3918:The history of warfare from its prehistoric origins to the present. The focus is on interactions between peoples around the world and particularly on the problems of innovation and adaptation. 
3919:This course reviews the historic development of intelligence organizations and operations. Primary focus is on the modern world and the correlation between intelligence and national security concerns. 
3920:Examines intelligence analysis methodology and products from a variety of settings and customer-types. An overview of the intelligence process and of collection strategies will also be conducted. The primary emphasis will be on conducting actual analysis of raw information to produce an intelligence estimate as a capstone to the course. 
3921:The course examines the interrelations between changes in warfare, the military system, and the gender order in Europe from medieval to modern time, and its reflection in international movies. 
3922:This course is a multi-disciplinary analysis of the phenomena of terrorism and political violence, their history, causes, the threat they pose, and what steps the United States can take in response. 
3923:Course investigates policies, issues, key problems, and potential solutions in strategic intelligence and international security. In addition to readings and class simulations, the students will write an issue paper similar to those prepared within the national security community assessing the future environment and suggesting policies and strategies. 
3924:This course examines international intelligence services within the context of national and homeland security. Prominent subjects include human intelligence (HUMINT), covert action, and counterintelligence, as well as the organizations, missions, and functions of international intelligence and security services. 
3925:Course investigates the concept, framework, and applications of cyber security; analyzes the relevant contextual background and current cyber security issues. Addresses cyber security from the perspective of the relevance of cyber security within national and international security policy formulation and implementation. Not a computer science nor information technology course. 
3926:The American military experience from colonial times to the early 20th century. Major themes include the problem of security, the development of military policies and institutions, and the way in which the country waged and experienced war. 
3927:Survey of America's military experience in the 20th century, focusing on national security policy, military institutions, World Wars I and II, the Cold War, the Korean and Vietnam Wars, and recent interventions. 
3928:A history of the United States in World War II (1941-1945): home front and military front. 
3929:Explores philosophical assumptions and social values expressed by advocates of war and peace through a critical examination of such rhetorical acts as speeches, essays, film, literature, and song. 
3930:Students are encouraged to undertake unpaid internships with branches of the federal government, international organizations, and selected nongovernment organizations. Pass/Fail only, with the written approval of the department chair. Does not count as a course in the major, but can be combined with an independent study such as PWAD 396. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
3931:Permission of the instructor. Independent study and reading. Special reading and research activities in a selected field under the supervision of a faculty member. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
3932:Study of nonroutine collective actions such as demonstrations, strikes, riots, social movements, and revolutions, with an emphasis on recent and contemporary movements. Students may not receive credit for both SOCI 413 and SOCI 411. 
3933:Analysis of the structure and functions of judicial systems emphasizing the organization, administration, and politics of judicial bureaucracies and roles of judges, juries, counsel, litigants, and interested groups in adjudication processes. 
3934:The rise of Macedonia; the careers of Philip II and Alexander (with emphasis on the latter's campaigns); the emerging Hellenistic Age. The course integrates computer (including Web site) and audiovisual materials throughout. 
3935:War and the warrior in the archaic and classical Greek world, seventh to the fourth centuries BCE. 
3936:Examines political peace settlements as components of conflict resolution in ethnically or regionally divided societies. The course identifies the aspects of negotiated settlements which seek to manage civil conflict. 
3937:Focuses on the various collaborations, exchanges, and mutual enrichment between Israelis and Palestinians in the realm of culture, particularly literature and cinema. These connections include language (Israeli Jewish authors writing in Arabic and Palestinian writers who choose Hebrew as their language of expression), collaborating in filmmaking, and joint educational initiatives. 
3938:Course explores contemporary threats to national security, approaches to national security strategy, policy instruments, the role of military force, and the policy-making process. 
3939:Students in this course will examine Christian attitudes toward holy war, crusading, and other forms of coercive violence from the 11th until the 15th centuries, with a focus on the major crusades of the Holy Land. 
3940:Conflict and conflict-resolution behavior. Applications to labor- management relations, family, sports, community politics, international relations. 
3941:The role of Congress, the press, public opinion, the president, the secretary and the Department of State, the military, and the intelligence community in making American foreign policy. Emphasizes the impact of the bureaucratic process on the content of foreign policy. students lacking the prerequisite. 
3942:This course explores the causes of terrorist behavior. The course also examines the government's response to terrorism, the internal implications of terrorists' campaigns, and prospects for conflict resolution. 
3943:A study of national defense policy as affected by the constitutional and political setting, as well as its relation to foreign policy. Some attention to strategic doctrine. students lacking the prerequisite. 
3944:Explores how Palestine is portrayed in writings, films, and other creative works and how Palestinian portrayals of homeland affect others' perceptions of the Palestinian-Israeli conflict and the Arab World. 
3945:The geography of politics is explored at the global, the nation-state, and the local scale in separate course units, but the interconnections between these geographical scales are emphasized throughout. (GHA) 
3946:Examines the nature of Islamic fundamentalist terrorism and strategies for addressing it, including analysis of post-9/11 changes to United States national security strategy, law enforcement and intelligence, and homeland security. 
3947:Analysis of international conflict and the causal mechanisms that drive or prevent conflict. Emphasis is on the conditions and processes of conflict and cooperation between nations. 
3948:The course explores the development of Euro-Atlantic security institutions (NATO, EU) and compares security policy in the United States and Europe. Cases include policy toward the Balkans, Afghanistan, Russia, and Ukraine. Includes review of concepts of security and selected international relations approaches to international organizations. 
3949:An introduction to international trade, the balance of payments, and related issues of foreign economic policy. 
3950:Literary representation in fiction, poetry, memoirs, and other genres of the mass annihilation and terror in Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union under the Nazi and Communist regimes. Taught in English; some foreign language readings for qualified students. 
3951:This course examines the roles of language policy and linguistic controversies in determining national identity and fueling political polarization. It focuses primarily on Western and Eastern Europe and Central Asia. 
3952:Focuses on ethnic and political conflicts in the former Yugoslavia and efforts by the international community to end conflict and promote peace and reconstruction. 
3953:Focuses on ethnic and political conflicts in the former Yugoslavia and efforts by the international community to end conflict and promote peace and reconstruction. 
3954:Literary representations of Russian revolutionaries and terrorists in the 19th and early 20th centuries. Readings by Dostoevsky, Chernyshevsky, Bely, Joseph Conrad, and by some of the terrorists themselves. Taught in English; some readings in Russian for qualified students. 
3955:An exploration of explosive combinations of religion and politics in the Iranian revolution, the Palestinian movement, Hindu nationalism in India, and Christian fundamentalism in America. 
3956:Introduces major topics in the interdisciplinary field of critical security studies. Critically analyzing the public construction of risk and security in military, technological, informational, and environmental domains, the course explores major theories that attempt to make sense of the transnational proliferation of violence and risk in historical and contemporary contexts. 
3957:In the debate on how to efficiently combat terrorism without abandoning the rule-of-law, it is often neglected that this is not a new problem. This course will examine European states' reactions to national and international terrorism since the 1960s. Case studies will include Germany, Italy, and the United Kingdom. 
3958:Permission of the Instructor. Explores national security policy formation through analyzing the United States national security apparatus, the elements of national power, and historical examples of their application. Also examines the merits of various approaches to national security decision making. A course for senior majors in PWAD. 
3959:Permission of the instructor. Course investigates the intelligence function associated with United States national security, focusing on how national security decision-makers (Congress and the Executive Branch) have designed and employed the intelligence apparatus as a component of national power. Case studies and in-class simulations complement the readings and seminar discussions. 
3960:Examines the history of and contemporary problems associated with nuclear security and counter-proliferation. 
3961:Examines the history of the British Empire and the role of peace, war, defense, diplomacy, and letters in shaping Britain's presence on the world stage. 
3962:Subject matter will vary with instructor, but will focus on some particular topic or historical approach. Course description available from departmental office. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
3963:This course introduces students to new research on the history of gender, the military, and war in a comparative perspective. It explores the interrelations between changing military systems, types of warfare, the gender order, as well as political, social, and cultural currents in modern history. 
3964:This course examines the leftist guerrilla movements that swept Latin America and the Caribbean during the latter half of the 20th century. Students will analyze the origins, trajectories, and legacies of these insurgencies, paying particular attention to the roles of race, class, and gender. 
3965:Major topics: constitutional conflict in the British empire; independence and war; Confederation and Constitution; growth of political parties and nationality in a period of domestic change and international conflict. 
3966:Focus is on causes, nature, and consequences of the Civil War. 
3967:A wide-ranging exploration of America's longest war, from 19th-century origins to 1990s legacies, from village battlegrounds to the Cold War context, from national leadership to popular participation and impact. 
3968:Examines American cultural myths about war generally and specifically about the causes of war, enemies, weapons, and warriors, and the way these myths constrain foreign and defense policy, military strategy, and procurement. 
3969:The power of the presidency depends in part upon the president's ability to rally public opinion, which depends upon the president's ability to use the "bully pulpit." This course examines the hurdles presidents face and the steps presidents take to shape opinion. 
3970:How the United States came to occupy a leading role in world affairs as a diplomatic, military, economic, and cultural power and what that role has meant to Americans and to other peoples, especially during the Cold War. 
3971:Examines conventional public health constructs of community preparedness and disaster management. Includes a review of traditional and emerging literature. Emphasizes conceptual development and application of adaptive leadership strategies. 
3972:Permission of curriculum chair and instructor required. Practical problems of international law, including its nature; treaty making, interpretation, enforcement, and termination; recognition; territory; nationality; jurisdiction and immunities; state responsibility and international claims; and the law of war and neutrality. 
3973:A study of literary works written in English concerning World War I, or the Spanish Civil War and World War II, or the Vietnam War. 
3974:A study of literary works written in English concerning World War I, or the Spanish Civil War and World War II, or the Vietnam War. 
3975:The focus is on Shakespeare's various treatments of war in his plays: all his Roman histories, most of his English histories, all his tragedies, even some of his comedies. 
3976:Research-intensive seminar focusing on the barriers preventing peace making from occurring. The course will make a distinction between making peace among individuals and achieving a political solution between governments and organizations. 
3977:Course explores the concepts and problems of political violence and insurgency in the context of national and international security from a policy maker perspective. Students will conduct research and analysis for policy formulation aimed at countering these problems, and will write a substantial research policy paper. 
3978:Seminars on aspects of peace, war, and defense that lead to the production of a significant research product. Past topics have included arms control, public opinion and national security, and the Cold War. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
3979:Permission of the instructor. Directed research on an independent basis for majors who are preparing an honors thesis and for the oral examination on the thesis. 
3980:Directed research on an independent basis for majors who are preparing an honors thesis and for the oral examination on the thesis. 
3981:Socrates is the quintessential philosopher--a man for all seasons, a foundational figure of the West. 
3982:Students will read some of the most important philosophical reflections of the 17th and 18th centuries. 
3983:Students will explore a variety of issues that arise when human beings begin to reflect on our own natures and will be introduced to main theories that have been developed. 
3984:Students will explore a variety of issues that arise when human beings begin to reflect on our own natures and will be introduced to main theories that have been developed. 
3985:What is time? Do the past and the future exist, or only the present? Is the "flow of time" an objective feature of reality? 
3986:Paradoxes have been a driving force in philosophy since the fourth century BCE. They force us to rethink old ideas and conceptions. 
3987:A general philosophical discussion of the value of life, the evil in death, and the wrongness of killing. 
3988:The goal of the course is to get a mature and correct understanding of race, racism, and affirmative action. 
3989:This course will explore the ethical dimensions of the responses to evil that we have developed over history. Revenge, retribution, reparation; hatred, resentment, forgiveness; punishment, pardon, mercy. 
3990:We will examine efforts in the history of philosophy to prove that God exists or that God does not exist. Our aim is to articulate and understand some of the underlying philosophical issues that are raised by these proofs and arguments. 
3991:What are minds and how are they related to bodies? 
3992:This seminar introduces several of the central problems in philosophy through reflection on the nature of mathematics. 
3993:This seminar examines theoretical issues, relativism, utilitarianism, deontological ethics, and virtue ethics. 
3994:This seminar examines ethical issues in sports, including Title IX, gender equity, racism, sexism, cheating, violence, and drug use. 
3995:This course will explore the meaning of basic moral concepts as they are understood in philosophy, science, and art. 
3996:What is evil? Who, if anyone, is responsible for it? How different are evil people from the rest of us? How should we respond to them? The course will explore the nature of evil through philosophy, nonfiction, fiction, and film. 
3997:This course will examine whether our belief in freedom of action is compatible with the modern picture of ourselves. 
3998:This course will examine whether our belief in freedom of action is compatible with the modern picture of ourselves. 
3999:Is man's reason a powerful thing: if one had knowledge or belief about something that should be done, would that be enough to position one to do it? 
4000:This course explores both old and new questions regarding death. It will examine the presuppositions and cogency of the classical religious- philosophical conception of death. 
4001:In this seminar we will examine a number of constitutions and try to determine what makes a constitution better or worse, and when it makes sense to borrow constitutional principles from other countries. We will also try our hand at designing a constitution. 
4002:The arguments by which Galileo and his contemporaries defended the Copernican model of the solar system puzzle philosophers even today. 
4003:The arguments by which Galileo and his contemporaries defended the Copernican model of the solar system puzzle philosophers even today. 
4004:Special Topics Course. Content will vary each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
4005:An introduction to philosophy focusing on a few central problems, for example: free will, the basis of morality, the nature and limits of knowledge, and the existence of God. 
4006:An introduction to philosophy focusing on a few central problems, for example: free will, the basis of morality, the nature and limits of knowledge, and the existence of God. 
4007:A course on how to identify, analyze, and evaluate arguments by other people and how to construct arguments. Topics include argument reconstruction, informal logic, fallacies, introductory formal logic, probabilistic reasoning. 
4008:An introduction to philosophy focusing on several great books from the history of Western philosophy. See course description at the department's website for which books will be covered each semester. 
4009:An introduction to philosophy focusing on several great books from the history of Western philosophy. See course description at the department's website for which books will be covered each semester 
4010:An examination of some of the most influential attempts to understand human beings, their lives, and their moral and political values. Authors include Plato, Aristotle, St. Matthew, Nietzsche, and Rand. 
4011:An examination of some of the most influential attempts to understand human beings, their lives, and their moral and political values. Authors include Plato, Aristotle, St. Matthew, Nietzsche, and Rand. 
4012:A philosophical inquiry into the problems of religious experience and belief, as expressed in philosophic, religious, and literary documents from traditional and contemporary sources. 
4013:A philosophical inquiry into the problems of religious experience and belief, as expressed in philosophic, religious, and literary documents from traditional and contemporary sources. 
4014:An examination of the differences between natural human languages and other communication systems. Includes a philosophical inquiry into how languages relate to the world and the mind. 
4015:An examination of the differences between natural human languages and other communication systems. Includes a philosophical inquiry into how languages relate to the world and the mind. 
4016:What is distinctive about the kind of knowledge called "science"? What is scientific explanation? How are scientific theories related to empirical evidence? 
4017:What is distinctive about the kind of knowledge called "science"? What is scientific explanation? How are scientific theories related to empirical evidence? 
4018:How do social sciences explain human actions? Are there social facts over and above facts about various individuals? Do values enter into social science? 
4019:Introduces the theory of deductive reasoning, using a symbolic language to represent and evaluate patterns of reasoning. Covers sentential logic and first-order predicate logic. 
4020:Introduces the theory of deductive reasoning, using a symbolic language to represent and evaluate patterns of reasoning. Covers sentential logic and first-order predicate logic. 
4021:A broader discussion of practical reasoning, including inductive and deductive logic, which provides a good introduction to decision and game theory that is important for the social sciences, especially economics. 
4022:Exploration of different philosophical perspectives about right and wrong, personal character, justice, moral reasoning, and moral conflicts. Readings drawn from classic or contemporary sources. Critical discussion emphasized. 
4023:Exploration of different philosophical perspectives about right and wrong, personal character, justice, moral reasoning, and moral conflicts. Readings drawn from classic or contemporary sources. Critical discussion emphasized. 
4024:Topics may include war, medical ethics, media ethics, sexual ethics, business ethics, racism, sexism, capital punishment, and the environment. 
4025:Topics may include war, medical ethics, media ethics, sexual ethics, business ethics, racism, sexism, capital punishment, and the environment. 
4026:An examination of business ethics and the types of ethical dilemmas people may face in business practices. 
4027:An examination of ethical issues in the life sciences and technologies, medicine, public health, and/or human interaction with nonhuman animals or the living environment. 
4028:An examination of ethical issues in the life sciences and technologies, medicine, public health and/or human interaction with nonhuman animals or the living environment. 
4029:An examination of major issues in political philosophy, e.g., liberty, individual rights, social responsibility, legal authority, civil authority, civil disobedience. Readings include classical and contemporary writings. 
4030:An examination of major issues in political philosophy, e.g. liberty, individual rights, social responsibility, legal authority, civil authority, civil disobedience. Readings include classical and contemporary writings. 
4031:A course on philosophical issues related to laughter and humor. Historical and contemporary philosophical theories of humor; connections between traditional issues in aesthetics and humor; moral questions about humor, such as what is involved in a joke being racist/sexist/homophobic; and connections between jokes and various epistemological fallacies. 
4032:The nature of art and artworks and their aesthetic appraisal. 
4033:The nature of art and artworks and their aesthetic appraisal. 
4034:The emergence of philosophy in Greece during the sixth century BCE and its development during the classical period. The major figures studied are the Pre-Socratic philosophers, Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle. 
4035:The emergence of philosophy in Greece during the sixth century BCE and its development during the classical period. The major figures studied are the Pre-Socratic philosophers, Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle. 
4036:An examination of some of the philosophical traditions of Asia. Possible topics include Advaita Vedanta, Nyaya-Vaisheshika, Madhyamaka Buddhism, neo-Confucianism, Mohism, and philosophical Taoism. 
4037:A survey of medieval philosophy from Augustine through Ockham. Topics: God and the world, faith and reason, knowledge and reality, the problem of universals. Additional main authors: Anselm, Aquinas, Duns Scotus. 
4038:The writings of Descartes, Spinoza, Locke, Berkeley, Leibniz, and Hume on such questions as, Can we know that the things we see and touch are real and not a dream? 
4039:A survey of European philosophers in the phenomenological and existentialist traditions. Philosophers studied may include Kierkegaard, Nietzsche, Husserl, Heidegger, Sartre, Camus. 
4040:A survey of European philosophers in the phenomenological and existentialist traditions. Philosophers studied may include Kierkegaard, Nietzsche, Husserl, Heidegger, Sartre, Camus. 
4041:An exploration of the distinctively American approaches to philosophy from Jonathan Edwards to the present. 
4042:An introductory survey of British and Continental philosophy in the 20th century. 
4043:Topics in metaphysics, such as, Is your mind different from your brain? Is time travel possible? What are cause and effect? What makes you today and yesterday the same person? 
4044:Topics in metaphysics, such as, Is your mind different from your brain? Is time travel possible? What are cause and effect? What makes you today and yesterday the same person? 
4045:Required preparation, one previous PHIL ethics course. Permission of the instructor. Ethics Bowl provides a unique experiential opportunity for students to apply theory to practical global issues. Students will prepare cases to present locally and at Ethics Bowl competition. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
4046:An analysis of the moral significance of sports, the nature of sport and competition, and issues such as racism, gender equity, violence, and performance-enhancing drugs. 
4047:An analysis of the moral significance of sports, the nature of sport and competition, and issues such as racism, gender equity, violence, and performance-enhancing drugs. 
4048:An analysis of ethical issues that arise in peace, war, and defense, e.g., the legitimacy of states, just war theory, terrorism, weapons of mass destruction. 
4049:This course will focus on justice and the common good, applying theoretical justifications to contemporary social and economic issues. Readings will include classical and contemporary literature on the nature of justice and rights. 
4050:Race, identity, discrimination, multiculturalism, affirmative action, and slave reparations in the writings of Walker, Delany, Douglass, Cooper, DuBois, King, and Malcolm X. 
4051:Race, identity, discrimination, multiculturalism, affirmative action, and slave reparations in the writings of Walker, Delany, Douglass, Cooper, DuBois, King, and Malcolm X. 
4052:A survey of feminist perspectives on topics such as the meaning of oppression, sexism and racism, sex roles and stereotypes, ideals of female beauty, women in the workplace, pornography, rape. 
4053:A survey of feminist perspectives on topics such as the meaning of oppression, sexism and racism, sex roles and stereotypes, ideals of female beauty, women in the workplace, pornography, rape. 
4054:Explores issues in legal philosophy such as, What is law? Does it serve justice or undermine it? Can punishment be justified? When is a person responsible? 
4055:Explores issues in legal philosophy such as, What is law? Does it serve justice or undermine it? Can punishment be justified? When is a person responsible? 
4056:The philosophy of human rights addresses questions about the existence, content, nature, universality, justification, and legal status of human rights.The strong claims made on behalf of human rights frequently provoke skeptical doubts and countering philosophical defenses. These will be addressed through classical and contemporary history of philosophy. 
4057:A critical examination of the moral and philosophical issues in education: What does it mean to be well educated? What is a liberal education? 
4058:Permission of the instructor. This course combines on-campus structured learning with substantial on-site field work incorporating philosophy into the primary and/or secondary school curriculum. Philosophy subjects and school partners will vary by semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
4059:An examination of general theories of the nature of reality. What kinds of things exist? What are space, time, and causation? Are abstract entities (such as numbers) real? 
4060:What is knowledge and how does it relate to belief, justification, and truth? What makes beliefs reasonable or irrational? Can skepticism be defeated? 
4061:The mind-body problem, the nature of thinking, the puzzles of consciousness, and the qualitative character of felt experience. 
4062:Survey of major topics in contemporary philosophy of language. Topics may include truth and meaning, speech acts, reference, descriptions, names, and demonstratives. 
4063:Topics may include the nature of space and time, the ontological status of fields and energy, or causation and locality in quantum physics. 
4064:Philosophical issues raised by biological theories, which may include the logical structure of evolutionary theory, fitness, taxonomy, the notion of a living thing, reductionism, evolutionary explanations, or teleology. 
4065:Philosophical questions raised by linguistics, computer science, cognitive psychology, and neuroscience. Topics may include the innateness of language, artificial intelligence, and the neural correlates of consciousness. 
4066:Philosophical questions raised by linguistics, computer science, cognitive psychology, and neuroscience. Topics may include the innateness of language, artificial intelligence, and the neural correlates of consciousness. 
4067:An interdisciplinary course on the weirdness of quantum mechanics and the problem of interpreting it. Nonlocality, the measurement problem, superpositions, Bohm's theory, collapse theories, and the many-worlds interpretation. 100 or greater; permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
4068:Quantificational logic with identity; basic meta-theory; modal logic. 
4069:Current accounts of evidence and observation, the confirmation of scientific theories, the logic of inductive reasoning, and the metaphysics and epistemology of chance. 
4070:PHIL 160 recommended. Major developments in the history of moral philosophy, from Plato to Nietzsche. 
4071:PHIL 160 recommended. Major developments in the history of moral philosophy, from Plato to Nietzsche. 
4072:Using 20th- and 21st-century texts, this course explores some general questions about morality in depth. For example, Is there moral truth? Are any moral rules absolute? Why be moral? 
4073:Using 20th- and 21st-century texts, this course explores some general questions about morality in depth. For example, Is there moral truth? Are any moral rules absolute? Why be moral? 
4074:Recommended preparation, at least one course in ethics (PHIL 160, 163, or 170) or one course in economics. Issues at the intersection of ethics and economics, including value; the relation between values and preferences; rationality; the relevance to economics of rights, justice, and the value of human life. 
4075:The meaning of environmental values and their relation to other values; the ethical status of animals, species, wilderness, and ecosystems; the built environment; environmental justice; ecofeminism; obligations to future generations. 
4076:Advanced discussion of competing philosophical approaches to questions of justice, authority, freedom, rights, and the like, including libertarianism, liberalism, communitarianism, Marxism, and feminism. 
4077:An examination of how philosophical issues are explored in the medium of film. 
4078:An examination of how philosophical issues are explored in the medium of film. 
4079:One course in economics strongly recommended. This interdisciplinary gateway course provides an introduction to subjects and quantitative techniques used to analyze problems in philosophy, political science, and economics. 
4080:Intensive exploration and discussion of selected topics in philosophy. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
4081:Intensive exploration and discussion of selected topics in philosophy. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
4082:Permission of the instructor. See the director of undergraduate studies of the department. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
4083:Students will present papers on selected topics for critical discussion. Recommended for philosophy majors in their junior year. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
4084:An examination of some representative works of Aristotle, with reference to common emphases and basic problems, together with an analysis of their philosophic content. 
4085:An examination of some representative works in the context of contemporary scholarship. 
4086:An intensive study of some medieval philosophical author (e.g., Aquinas, Scotus, or Ockham) or topic (e.g., arguments for the existence of God, universals, knowledge of individuals). 
4087:An in-depth study of the Continental rationalist philosophers, Descartes, Spinoza, and Leibniz. 
4088:An in-depth study of the British empiricist philosophers, Locke, Berkeley, and Hume. 
4089:An intensive introduction to Kant's accounts of space, time, concepts, perception, substance, causation, and the thinking self through a careful study of his masterwork, The Critique of Pure Reason. 
4090:In-depth study of Hegel's systematic philosophy emphasizing its roots in Kant's critical philosophy. Primary focus on Phenomenology of Spirit, supplemented by selections from the Encyclopedia and Philosophy of Right. 
4091:An in-depth study of American contributions to philosophy, including for example the transcendentalists, the pragmatists, Quine, Rorty, and others. 
4092:Two courses in philosophy other than PHIL 155 strongly recommended. Frege, Russell, Moore, and Wittgenstein among others are considered. 
4093:Two courses in philosophy other than PHIL 155 strongly recommended. Recent work in epistemology and metaphysics. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
4094:At least two courses in philosophy other than PHIL 155, including PHIL 340, strongly recommended. An examination of dualism, behaviorism, the identity theory, and forms of functionalism with special focus on the problems of mental aboutness and the problems of consciousness. 
4095:At least two courses in philosophy other than PHIL 155, including PHIL 345, strongly recommended. A study of important contemporary contributions in philosophy of language. Topics include meaning, reference, and truth. 
4096:An in-depth survey of general issues in contemporary philosophy of natural science intended for advanced philosophy students. Topics include confirmation, explanation, theory-choice, realism, reduction. 
4097:Topics may include the nature of space and time, the ontological status of fields and energy, or causation and locality in quantum physics. 
4098:Topics may include reasoning, the relationship between language and thought, concepts, moral cognition, and emotions. 
4099:The nature of historical explanation, structural and functional explanation, the weighing of historical testimony, the concept of meaning, normative judgments and predictions in the social sciences. 
4100:Introduction for graduates and advanced undergraduates. 
4101:Presupposes propositional and quantificational logic as a basis of further deductive development with special attention to selected topics: alternative systems, modal and deontic logic, inductive logic, the grammar of formalized languages, paradoxes, and foundations of mathematics. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
4102:Natural and real numbers. Infinite cardinal and ordinal numbers. Alternative axiom systems and their consistency problems. students lacking the prerequisite. 
4103:Philosophical problems concerning logic and the foundation of mathematics. 
4104:Examination of classic texts of Plato, Aristotle, Aquinas, Hobbes, Butler, Hume, Kant, and Mill. Selections may vary from year to year. including PHIL 360, strongly recommended. 
4105:Advanced discussion of moral issues such as fact and value, reason and morality, the nature of morality. including PHIL 362. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
4106:Two courses in philosophy other than PHIL 155 strongly recommended. A detailed examination of one or more of the following contemporary issues: environmental ethics, animal rights, abortion, euthanasia, pornography, racism, sexism, public versus private morality. 
4107:One course in philosophy strongly recommended. Medical students welcome. The course will focus on the question of how scarce health care resources ought to be distributed in order to meet the demands of justice. 
4108:One additional course in philosophy strongly recommended. The course examines attitudes toward risk and how they affect our preferences for different public policies in the areas of environmental protection, technology regulation, and workplace and product safety. 
4109:Two courses in philosophy other than PHIL 155, including PHIL 170 or 370, strongly recommended. Explores the foundations of justice and authority in the idea of contract or covenant, the nature of law, rights, liberty, and democracy in the work of Hobbes, Locke, Hume, Rousseau. 
4110:An examination of central issues in social and political philosophy as they figure in the work of Hegel, Marx, Nietzsche, and others. 
4111:One course in philosophy other than PHIL 155 strongly recommended. Juniors and seniors only. The issue of unity and diversity in America is analyzed through the writings of Jefferson, the Federalists and Anti- Federalists, Calhoun, MacKinnon, DuBois, and Rawls. 
4112:This course traces the emergence and development of central themes of modern political philosophy from the 13th through the 17th century. 
4113:Examines in greater depth and complexity one or more of the issues addressed in PHIL 275, investigating issues of gender, race, and class within the dominant theories of philosophy. 
4114:Two courses in philosophy other than PHIL 155, including PHIL 370, strongly recommended. Investigation of major contemporary contributors (Rawls, Nozick, Dworkin, Cohen, Waldron, Arrow) to philosophical debate concerning justice, equality, liberty, democracy, public reason, or rights versus community. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
4115:An exploration of whether and under what conditions the state has the right to control crime by punishment of past crimes and preventive detention to prevent future crimes. 
4116:Philosophical readings of literary texts, including novels, plays, and poems. 
4117:Competing theories of art and art criticism. The relationship between art and emotional expression, the formal character of art, and standards of taste. 
4118:Interdisciplinary course to develop critical thinking capacities through philosophical study of the nature of scientific presuppositions and concepts, including events, causality, and determinism, with specific application to health care issues. 
4119:A study of one or two major systematic works by Sartre, Heidegger, or Merleau-Ponty. 
4120:Permission of the director of undergraduate studies. Advanced independent work in philosophy. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
4121:Ethics explores obligations to act in the interest of others as well as ourselves. Justice explores the ways people should organize and govern themselves. Course addresses such questions as, What principles govern our relationships with other people? What do we owe others and ourselves? How should we treat other people? Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 2 total credits. 2 total completions. 
4122:Permission of the director of undergraduate studies. See the director of undergraduate studies of the department. 
4123:Permission of the director of undergraduate studies. See the director of undergraduate studies of the department. 
4124:Permission of the department. This capstone course advances PHIL 384, focusing on such theoretical and philosophical issues as the analysis of rights or distributive justice and the institutional implications of moral forms. 
4125:This seminar explores the 2,000-year effort to understand the motion of the sun, moon, stars, and five visible planets. Earth-centered cosmos gives way to the conclusion that earth is just another body in space. Cultural changes accompany this revolution in thinking. 
4126:Physics is often seen as the most precise and deterministic of sciences. Determinism can break down, however. This seminar explores the rich and diverse areas of modern physics in which "unpredictability" is the norm. 
4127:Physics is often seen as the most precise and deterministic of sciences. Determinism can break down, however. This seminar explores the rich and diverse areas of modern physics in which "unpredictability" is the norm. 
4128:Special topics course content will vary each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
4129:Celestial motions of the earth, sun, moon, and planets; nature of light; ground and space-based telescopes; comparative planetology; the earth and the moon; terrestrial and gas planets and their moons; dwarf planets, asteroids, and comets; planetary system formation; extrasolar planets; the search for extraterrestrial intelligence (SETI). 
4130:Observing with robotic telescopes in Chile, Australia, and around the world: planets, dwarf planets, moons, asteroids, binary and variable stars, supernovae, star-forming regions, star clusters, and galaxies; the seasons, the Galilean revolution; the cosmic distance ladder; the Great Debate; dark matter; Hubble's Law; dark energy. 
4131:Celestial motions of the earth, sun, moon, and planets; nature of light; ground and space-based telescopes; comparative planetology; the earth, the moon; terrestrial and gas planets and their moons; dwarf planets; asteroids; comets; planetary system formation; extrasolar planets; the search for extraterrestrial intelligence (SETI). 
4132:The sun, stellar observables, star birth, evolution, and death, novae and supernovae, white dwarfs, neutron stars, black holes, the Milky Way galaxy, normal galaxies, active galaxies and quasars, dark matter, dark energy, cosmology, early universe. or 119; Permission of the instructor for students lacking the pre- or co- requisites. 
4133:The sun, stellar observables, star birth, evolution, and death, novae and supernovae, white dwarfs, neutron stars, black holes, the Milky Way galaxy, normal galaxies, active galaxies and quasars, dark matter, dark energy, cosmology, early universe. or 119; Permission of the instructor for students lacking the pre- or co- requisites. 
4134:Permission of the instructor. One-week field experience at the National Radio Astronomy Observatory in Green Bank, WV, for experiential education (EE) credit. Observing with radio telescopes and antennae: supernova remnants, star-forming regions, normal and active galaxies, quasars, solar system objects (sun, moon, Jupiter), radio spectroscopy. 
4135:This course will examine science as it emerged and developed in the West starting in the 13th century. We will use example problems from cosmology that are relevant today. 
4136:Pre- or Permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. Stellar observables; galaxies; novae; cosmology; the early universe. This one-credit course can be taken with ASTR 102 for students who wish to major or minor in astrophysics. 
4137:Permission of the instructor. To be taken by honors candidates and other qualified juniors and seniors. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
4138:An introduction to the study of stellar structure and evolution. Topics covered include observational techniques, stellar structure and energy transport, nuclear energy sources, evolution off the main-sequence, and supernovae. permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
4139:An introduction to modern research in astrophysics based on scientific journal articles addressing a current topic of interest in galactic or extragalactic astrophysics, including training in computer modeling and statistical analysis, culminating in the completion of a research project. PHYS 331. 
4140:Internal dynamics and structure of galaxies; physics of star formation, active galactic nuclei, and galaxy interactions; large-scale clustering and environment-dependent physical processes; evolution of the galaxy population over cosmic time. 
4141:An introduction to modern cosmology: the study of the contents and evolution of the universe. Covers expanding spacetime, the thermal history of the early universe, including nucleosynthesis and the cosmic microwave background, the inflationary model for the origins of cosmic structure, and the growth of that structure though time. PHYS 321. 
4142:Surveys the physical processes governing the interstellar medium (ISM), which takes up the "refuse" of old stars while providing fuel for young stars forming. Covers the processes regulating the galactic gas budget and the corresponding observational diagnostics. Topics: radiative transfer, line formation mechanisms, continuum radiation, gas dynamics, star formation. 
4143:A course designed to familiarize the student with observational techniques in optical and radio astronomy, including application of photography, spectroscopy, photometry, and radio methods. Three lecture and three laboratory hours a week. permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisite. 
4144:Acoustics and music from a practical standpoint. 
4145:This seminar investigates the multiple roles that computers and microprocessors perform in scientific investigations and the impact of technological advances on society. Students perform experiments, take field trips to research laboratories, and gain hands-on experience with computer-based instrumentation. 
4146:This seminar provides a general introduction to nanoscience and nanotechnology, focusing on recent advances in molecular electronics, nanomaterials, and biomedical research. Course activities include group model-building projects, presentations, and discussions of reading material. 
4147:This seminar explores the 2,000-year effort to understand the motion of the sun, moon, stars, and five visible planets. Earth-centered cosmos gives way to the conclusion that earth is just another body in space. Cultural changes accompany this revolution in thinking. 
4148:Physics is often seen as the most precise and deterministic of sciences. Determinism can break down, however. This seminar explores the rich and diverse areas of modern physics in which "unpredictability" is the norm. 
4149:Physics is often seen as the most precise and deterministic of sciences. Determinism can break down, however. This seminar explores the rich and diverse areas of modern physics in which "unpredictability" is the norm. 
4150:Special Topics course. Content will vary each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
4151:Demystifying the working of objects such as CD players, microwave ovens, lasers, computers, roller coasters, rockets, light bulbs, automobiles, clocks, copy machines, X-ray and CAT-scan machines, and nuclear reactors. 
4152:Basic principles of physics with introduction to quantum physics, atoms, nuclei, and relativity. Not to be taken for credit after PHYS 104-105 or 114-115 or 116-117 or 118-119. Three lecture and two laboratory hours a week. 
4153:Lecture portion of 104, awarded as AP credit. 
4154:Lecture portion of 105, awarded as AP credit. 
4155:permission of the instructor for students lacking the requisite. Three lecture hours and two laboratory hours a week. Students may not receive credit for both PHYS 104 and PHYS 114, 116, or 118. 
4156:permission of the instructor for students lacking the requisite. Three lecture hours and two laboratory hours a week. Students may not receive credit for both PHYS 105 and PHYS 115, 117, or 119. 
4157:A hands-on/minds-on approach to learning the basic concepts of physical science. Emphasis will be placed on examining the nature of science, your own learning, and the way scientists learn science. 
4158:Students quantify global depletion of energy resources and accompanying environmental degradation, discovering the profound changes in attitudes and behavior required to adjust to diminished fossil fuels and modified climate. 
4159:Basic principles of physics, including forces, energy, oscillations, sound, diffusion, and heat transfer, and applications to biological systems. Intended to meet the needs of, but not restricted to, students majoring in the life sciences. Students may not receive credit for PHYS 114 in addition to PHYS 104, 116, or 118. 
4160:Basic principles of physics, including fluids, electricity, magnetism, optics, quantum physics, and nuclear physics, and applications to biological systems. Intended to meet the needs of, but not restricted to, students majoring in the life sciences. Students may not receive credit for PHYS 115 in addition to PHYS 105, 117, or 119. 
4161:Mechanics of particles and rigid bodies. Newton's laws; conservation principles. Oscillatory and wave motion. Sound. Lecture, recitation, and laboratory. Students may not receive credit for both PHYS 116 and PHYS 104, 114, or 118. permission of the instructor for students lacking the requisites. 
4162:Mechanics of particles and rigid bodies. Newton's laws; conservation principles. Oscillatory and wave motion. Sound. Lecture, recitation, and laboratory. Students may not receive credit for both PHYS 116 and PHYS 104, 114, or 118. permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
4163:Electricity and magnetism; laws of Coulomb, Ampere, and Faraday. Electromagnetic oscillations and waves. Light; diffraction and interference. Lecture, recitation, and laboratory. Students may not receive credit for both PHYS 117 and PHYS 105, 115, or 119. MATH 233; permission of the instructor for students lacking the requisites. 
4164:Electricity and magnetism; laws of Coulomb, Ampere, and Faraday. Electromagnetic oscillations and waves. Light; diffraction and interference. Lecture, recitation, and laboratory. Students may not receive credit for both PHYS 117 and PHYS 105, 115, and 119. MATH 233; permission of the instructor for students lacking the requisites. 
4165:Mechanics of particles and rigid bodies. Newton's laws; mechanical and potential energy; mechanical conservation laws; frame-dependence of physical laws; Einstein's Theory of Relativity. Lecture and studio. Students may not receive credit for PHYS 118 in addition to PHYS 104, 114, or 116. permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
4166:Unification of the laws of electricity and magnetism; electromagnetic waves; the particle-wave duality; fundamental principles and applications of quantum mechanics. Lecture and studio. Students may not receive credit for PHYS 119 in addition to PHYS 105, 115, or 117. MATH 233; permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
4167:Special relativity theory, black body radiation, photons and electrons; wave particle duality. Elements of atomic theory, nuclei and fundamental particles. Three lecture hours a week. instructor); co-requisite, PHYS 128L. 
4168:Pre- or Selected modern physics experiments. Written research reports and oral presentations. Three laboratory hours a week. 
4169:A quantitative exploration of the physical principles behind energy development and use within modern civilization, the stark impact of depleted fossil fuel reserves, and alternative sources. 
4170:Explore renewable and nonrenewable energy sources. Three laboratory hours per week. 
4171:A description of the scientific community and how scientists relate to such sociotechnical issues as the space program, the arms race, the energy problem, computer technology, medical technology, and pseudosciences. 
4172:Physics of biology and biotechnology. Life as an assembly of molecular machines that manipulate DNA, replicate cells, propel bacteria, and contract muscles. Nanotechnology for DNA biotechnology and microscale fluid chips. 
4173:A one-semester course in statics, kinematics, simple harmonic motion, central forces, and applications from modern physics. permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
4174:Electric fields and potentials, dielectrics, steady currents, magnetic flux and magnetic materials, electromagnetic induction. Emphasis on Maxwell's equations and their application to electromagnetic waves in bounded and unbounded media. 
4175:Course focuses on combining sensors and precision motions so that microcomputers can measure environmental conditions locally or worldwide via the Internet and manipulate that environment. Students propose a project, execute it with popular microcomputers, utilize three- dimensional design tools and printers, write a final report, and publish a demonstration on YouTube. or 119. 
4176:Research with a faculty mentor. Approved learning contract required. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
4177:Pre- or permission of the instructor for students lacking the requisite. Brief treatment of DC and AC circuit theory. Electrostatics: dielectrics, the magnetic field, magnetic materials. Maxwell's equations and their application to electromagnetic waves. 
4178:Contingent and necessary properties of space and time. The direction and flow of time. Fatalism. Effects preceding their causes. 
4179:Origins of quantum theory. Uncertainty principle. Schroedinger equation for simple systems, including hydrogen atom. Perturbation theory. Spin. Identical particles. requisite, PHYS 401; permission of the instructor for students lacking the requisites. 
4180:Applications of calculus, vector analysis, differential equations, complex numbers, and computer programming to realistic physical systems. Three lecture and two computational laboratory hours per week. requisite, MATH 383. 
4181:DC and AC circuit analysis. Diodes, transistor amplifiers, analog devices and signal conditioning. Boolean logic and digital logic circuits. Extensive practice designing and debugging circuits. permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
4182:Introduction to digital circuits: gates, flip-flops, and counters. Computers and device interconnections, converters and data acquisition. Signal analysis and digital filters. Graphical (LabVIEW) programming and computer interfacing. Individual projects and practical applications. students lacking the prerequisite. 
4183:An interdisciplinary course on the weirdness of quantum mechanics and the problem of interpreting it. Nonlocality, the measurement problem, superpositions, Bohm's theory, collapse theories, and the many-worlds interpretation. 100 or greater; permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
4184:Modeling of celestial dynamics, nuclear physics problems, electrostatics; Monte Carlo integration in particle and theoretical physics; data modeling for physics and astronomy; gravitation, electromagnetism, fluid dynamics and quantum mechanics. Three lecture and two computational laboratory hours per week. 
4185:To be taken by seniors with permission of the department. 
4186:Research with a faculty mentor. Approved learning contract required. Additionally, students write and submit a proposal to an internal or external competition for funding intended for students. They also give a poster or oral presentation on the topic of their research at an appropriate symposium or meeting. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
4187:Research with a faculty mentor. Approved learning contract required. Additionally, students write and submit a proposal to an internal or external competition for funding intended for students. They also give a poster or oral presentation on the topic of their research at an appropriate symposium or meeting. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
4188:permission of the instructor for students lacking the requisites. Particle kinematics, central forces, planetary motions. Systems of particles, conservation laws, nonlinearity. Statics, motion of rigid bodies. Lagrange's and Hamilton's equations. Euler's equations. Vibrations and waves. 
4189:How diffusion, entropy, electrostatics, and hydrophobicity generate order and force in biology. Topics include DNA manipulation, intracellular transport, cell division, molecular motors, single molecule biophysics techniques, nerve impulses, neuroscience. 
4190:Learning how to teach physics using current research-based methods. Includes extensive fieldwork in high school and college environments. Meets part of the licensure requirements for North Carolina public school teaching. permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
4191:Brief treatment of DC and AC circuit theory. Electrostatics: dielectrics; the magnetic field; magnetic materials. Maxwell's equations and their application to electromagnetic waves. students lacking the prerequisite. 
4192:Elements of geometrical optics; Huygens' principles, interference, diffraction, and polarization. Elements of the electromagnetic theory of light; Fresnel's equations, dispersion, absorption, and scattering. Photons. Lasers and quantum optics. for students lacking the prerequisites. 
4193:Origin of the solar system: the nebular hypothesis. Evolution of the earth and its accretionary history. Earthquakes: plate tectonics and the interior of the earth. The earth's magnetic field. Mantle convection. 311 and 401. 
4194:This course is specifically for certification of high school teachers. Students may not receive credit for both PHYS 424 and PHYS 104 or 114. 
4195:This course is specifically for certification of high school teachers. Students may not receive credit for both PHYS 425 and PHYS 105 or 115. 
4196:Equilibrium statistical mechanics; the laws of thermodynamics, internal energy, enthalpy, entropy, thermodynamic potentials, Maxwell's equations. of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
4197:Properties of crystal lattices, electrons in energy bands, behavior of majority and minority charge carriers, PN junctions related to the structure and function of semiconductor diodes, transistors, display devices. or 311. 
4198:Permission of the instructor. A survey of materials processing and characterization used in fabricating microelectronic devices. Crystal growth, thin film deposition and etching, and microlithography. 
4199:Selected experiments illustrating modern techniques such as the use of laser technology to study the interaction of electromagnetic fields and matter. Six laboratory hours a week. for students lacking the prerequisites. 
4200:Structure determination and measurement of the optical, electrical, and magnetic properties of solids. 
4201:Continuation of PHYS 491L with emphasis on low- and high-temperature behavior, the physical and chemical behavior of lattice imperfections and amorphous materials, and the nature of radiation damage. 
4202:How students learn and understand physics and astronomy. How to teach using current research-based methods. 
4203:Emphasizes atomic physics but includes topics from nuclear, solid state, and particle physics, such as energy levels, the periodic system, selection rules, and fundamentals of spectroscopy. 
4204:Structure of nucleons and nuclei, nuclear models, forces and interactions, nuclear reactions. . students lacking the prerequisite. 
4205:Crystal symmetry, types of crystalline solids; electron and mechanical waves in crystals, electrical and magnetic properties of solids, semiconductors; low temperature phenomena; imperfections in nearly perfect crystals. students lacking the prerequisite. 
4206:Broad and quantitative study of renewable electric power systems: wind systems, photovoltaic cells, distributed generation (concentrating solar power, microhydro, biomass), and the economics of these technologies. and 131L or 281L, and 201 or 401, and 211 or 311, and 351; pre- or corequisites, CHEM 261 and 481. 
4207:Assess quantitatively the feasibility of powering humanity without increasing release of climate-altering carbon dioxide and other organic greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. Can these gases be removed? Which bio-chemical-physical novelties may scale to meet growing demand and at what cost? and 131L or 281L, and 201 or 401, and 211 or 311, and 351; pre- or corequisites, CHEM 261 and 481. 
4208:Fundamentals of imaging as applied to biological, medical and astronomy imaging systems. Physics of radiation and particle sources, image formation and detection physics. Principles of optics, coherence, Fourier methods, statistics, especially as they cross disciplinary boundaries for new opportunities in imaging. 
4209:Interdisciplinary introduction to nonlinear dynamics and chaos. Fixed points, bifurcations, strange attractors, with applications to physics, biology, chemistry, finance. students lacking the prerequisite. 
4210:Vector fields, curvilinear coordinates, functions of complex variables, linear differential equations of second order, Fourier series, integral transforms, delta sequence. 
4211:Partial differential equations, special functions, Green functions, variational methods, traveling waves, and scattering. students lacking the prerequisite. 
4212:Required preparation, elementary Fortran, C, or Pascal programming. Structured programming in Fortran or Pascal; use of secondary storage and program packages; numerical methods for advanced problems, error propagation and computational efficiency; symbolic mathematics by computer. 
4213:The physical properties of fluids, kinematics, governing equations, viscous incompressible flow, vorticity dynamics, boundary layers, irrotational incompressible flow. students lacking the prerequisite. 
4214:Six laboratory hours a week. for students lacking the prerequisites. 
4215:Six laboratory hours a week. for students lacking the prerequisites. 
4216:Permission of the instructor. Readings in physics and directed research for a senior honor thesis project. Required of all candidates for graduation with honors in physics. 
4217:Readings in physics and directed research for a senior honor thesis project. Required of all candidates for graduation with honors in physics. 
4218:Movies often reflect important social and political issues. In this course students will see a set of movies, discuss them, and put them into social and political contexts. 
4219:3 Credits. This course will introduce students to the law, civil rights, Southern history, politics, moral questions, and culture surrounding the 1896 case of Plessy v. Ferguson, a case that has had an impact on every part of our life in America. 
4220:This seminar will explore what relationships have been designated "friendship" in the past, and why they are of such concern to political and ethical philosophers like Plato, Aristotle, Cicero, Montaigne, and Emerson. 
4221:Literature often provides insight into political life. Issues such as power, justice, equality, and rights have long been illuminated by authors seeking to capture a wide variety of political relationships. 
4222:This course will survey a wide range of topics on the American Laborer and the American Worker unions. 
4223:This course examines the emergence of the increasingly diverse and divided ethnic and racial compositions. 
4224:How we think about ourselves as Americans, and how our identities influence our ideas about politics. 
4225:This course explores the politics of economic globalization, with a focus on the relationships among trade, multinational corporations, and workers' rights. 
4226:This course will address the nature of terror and its use by private individuals and by governments. 
4227:This interdisciplinary seminar is designed for students who wish to learn about Latin America in the disciplines of history and political science. 
4228:This interdisciplinary seminar is designed for students who wish to learn about Latin America in the disciplines of history and political science. 
4229:This course prepares the student for an understanding of influence and the practice of political leadership and persuasion. 
4230:Unconventional collective political behavior: mass movements, riots, demonstrations, revolts, and revolution. 
4231:This course is designed to offer students insight into how political scientists think about political phenomena. 
4232:The alliance between America and the European Union is one of the most important political relationships today. 
4233:Introducing the study of using political institutions as levers of conflict management in ethnically plural, postconflict national states. 
4234:This course examines the ongoing development of the European Union. 
4235:This course explores the concepts of race, ethnicity, language, religion, and gender in a comparative context in order to gain a better understanding of their application in the United States. 
4236:This course explores the concepts of race, ethnicity, language, religion, and gender in a comparative context in order to gain a better understanding of their application in the United States. 
4237:Humans and animals have always lived together. Increasingly, philosophers question the exclusion of animals from political life. We explore their centrality to political thought and consider important aspects of human-animal relationships today. Finally, we reexamine the claim that animal life is incongruent with political life. 
4238:Humans and animals have always lived together. Increasingly, philosophers question the exclusion of animals from political life. We explore their centrality to political thought and consider important aspects of human-animal relationships today. Finally, we reexamine the claim that animal life is incongruent with political life. 
4239:This seminar explores the notion of a rule of law, statutory and case law, legal analysis, and the realities of the adversarial system and legal practice. Students will be engaged in analytical thinking and expression through classroom discussion, analytical papers, and examinations. 
4240:Course content will vary each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
4241:An introductory course designed to explain the basic processes and issues of the American political system. 
4242:An introductory course designed to explain the basic processes and issues of the American political system. 
4243:An introductory course on the government, politics, and policies at the state and local levels of the United States federal system. 
4244:An introductory course on the government, politics, and policies at the state and local levels of the United States federal system. 
4245:This course highlights the comparative method by seeking to understand differences among diverse states on several continents. 
4246:This course highlights the comparative method by seeking to understand differences among diverse states on several continents. 
4247:An overview of politics and government in the Third World, emphasizing characteristics, problems, and solutions (successful and otherwise) common to nations making the attempt to modernize. 
4248:The analysis of politics among nations. 
4249:The analysis of politics among nations. 
4250:Permission of the instructor. This laboratory section introduces students in POLI 150 to contemporary research methods in the study of international relations and world politics. Students will design and conduct independent research related to international politics. 
4251:A detailed examination of selected topics in the field of political science. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
4252:Required preparation, six hours of POLI course credit. An opportunity to obtain credit for an internship in a government or public service organization. Pass/Fail only. Does not count toward the political science major. Requires permission of the department. Open to political science majors only. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
4253:Permission of the director of undergraduate studies. Readings and research under the supervision of a member of the department. Open to political science majors. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
4254:An analysis of the roles and influence of the president, the Congress, and other participants in the making of national policy. 
4255:Problems of the public service; internal dynamics of public organizations; acquisition and allocation of public funds; the roles of bureaucracy in relation to public policy, clients, the citizenry, and society. 
4256:Examination of the process of policy making on the Supreme Court. Focuses upon the selection of justices, factors affecting the court's decision making, and the impact of its policies. 
4257:A large majority of Americans supports the death penalty in the abstract, but the number of death sentences and executions has been declining since the mid-1990s. This course explores the decline of the death penalty by looking at race, questions of innocence, and the new politics of capital punishment. 
4258:This course introduces students to moral and ethical issues that arise when individual rights conflict with the law and the central role race plays in American society's response. 
4259:This course introduces students to moral and ethical issues that arise when individual rights conflict with the law and the central role race plays in American society's response. 
4260:This course examines how interests organize themselves, enter into and then interact within interest communities, and seek to influence government policy through electoral activity and lobbying legislators, executives, and courts. 
4261:An analysis of the dynamics of party alignment and realignment and of nomination and election to public office in American national government. 
4262:A study of forces affecting public opinion and its expression in various political activities. Emphasis on gathering and analyzing opinion data. Course may be taught in the computer classroom. 
4263:A study of forces affecting public opinion and its expression in various political activities. Emphasis on gathering and analyzing opinion data. Course may be taught in the computer classroom. 
4264:Survey of international social, political, and cultural patterns in selected societies of Africa, Asia, America, and Europe, stressing comparative analysis of conflicts and change in different historical contexts. LAC recitation sections offered in French, German, and Spanish. 
4265:Findings of the behavioral sciences are examined as they relate to politics. Includes such issues as human nature, community, political socialization, alienation, mass movements, belief systems, and personality. 
4266:Examines the theory and practice of constitutional democracy, including the process of constitution writing, constitutional maintenance, and constitutional change, with special emphasis on the United States Constitution. 
4267:A comparison of men and women as political actors at the mass and elite level in America. Topics considered include the "gender gap," the women's movement, abortion, and the Equal Rights Amendment. 
4268:Examines the role of lesbians, gays, and bisexuals as political actors in the United States, both as individuals and collectively as a social movement. 
4269:This course examines the electoral representation of racial and ethnic minorities in the United States. While multiple ethnic groups are studied, there will be an emphasis on the two largest minority groups in the country: Latinos and African Americans. 
4270:An introduction to the life of the citizen in modern democracies: conceptions of citizenship, patriotism, political identities, tolerance, conceptions of rights and duties, civic engagement, civility, discussing public affairs, and democratization. 
4271:An introduction to the life of the citizen in modern democracies: conceptions of citizenship, patriotism, political identities, tolerance, conceptions of rights and duties, civic engagement, civility, discussing public affairs, and democratization. 
4272:A survey of the events, institutions, and issues that have dominated relations between Latin America and the United States. 
4273:An introduction to contemporary UK politics emphasizing the political battle between socialist and conservative ideologies. 
4274:An introduction to contemporary UK politics emphasizing the political battle between socialist and conservative ideologies. 
4275:Factors and forces that explain the rise and demise of the Soviet political system and consideration of emerging new political configurations in the area. 
4276:Factors and forces that explain the rise and demise of the Soviet political system and consideration of emerging new political configurations in the area. 
4277:Examines contemporary politics in east-central Europe by looking at the communist period, the 1989 revolutions, and the political, economic, and social transformations underway in the area. 
4278:Examines contemporary politics in east-central Europe by looking at the communist period, the 1989 revolutions, and the political, economic, and social transformations underway in the area. 
4279:An introduction to the politics of People's Republic of China with a focus on the Reform Era. Provides a working knowledge for understanding political events in contemporary China in three parts: historical background, evolution of political institutions, and changing relations between ordinary people and the Chinese state. 
4280:An introduction to contemporary political conditions in Latin America, including consideration of leading theoretical explanations. Country emphasis varies with instructor. 
4281:An introduction to contemporary political conditions in Latin America, including consideration of leading theoretical explanations. Country emphasis varies with instructor. 
4282:A treatment of the political institutions and processes of western European democracies, with special attention to France, Germany, England, and Italy. 
4283:A treatment of the political institutions and processes of western European democracies, with special attention to France, Germany, England, and Italy. 
4284:A survey of African American political development from emancipation to the present. The course examines the dynamics of minority group politics with African Americans as the primary unit of analysis. Students consider African American politics in domestic and global contexts and issues of local, regional, national, and international relevance. 
4285:Examines international organizations and their relationships with and impact upon international politics, international law, and selected global issues. 
4286:An examination of selected topics in international relations, such as security and defense, international integration, and north-south relations. 
4287:Covers the politics of environmental issues, with a focus on issues that have become internationalized. It focuses on the special problems that arise in creating rules for environmental management and regulation when no single government has authority to enforce those rules. 
4288:This class explores the moral, economic, political, and cultural dimensions of international migration. It is discussion-based and tackles such thorny questions as, Do we have an obligation to let poor people into our rich country? What constitutes persecution? How do foreigners affect national identity? How should citizenship be allocated? 
4289:This class explores the moral, economic, political, and cultural dimensions of international migration. It is discussion-based and tackles such thorny questions as, Do we have an obligation to let poor people into our rich country? What constitutes persecution? How do foreigners affect national identity? How should citizenship be allocated? 
4290:This course considers the politics of international trade and finance on the eve of World War I. We explore the factors, domestic and international, that facilitated integration prior to World War I, as well as those that prevented a return to economic openness in the 1920s and 1930s. 
4291:The interdisciplinary, team-taught seminar will explore cultural, historical, and political issues of contemporary Germany and analyze German developments from the postwar period to the present. Readings and discussions in English. 
4292:Draws on historical, political, economic, and sociological perspectives to analyze social, cultural, and institutional change. 
4293:Introduction to feminist theory and its implications for the study and practice of political theory. Topics: women in feminist critiques of the Western political tradition, schools of feminist political theory. 
4294:Survey designed to introduce students to major political thinkers and ideas of the ancient world and of the medieval period. 
4295:Survey designed to introduce students to major political thinkers and ideas of the ancient world and of the medieval period. 
4296:Survey course designed to introduce students to major political thinkers and schools of thought dating roughly from the 16th century to the present. 
4297:Survey course designed to introduce students to major political thinkers and schools of thought dating roughly from the 16th century to the present. 
4298:An analysis of ethical issues that arise in peace, war, and defense, e.g., the legitimacy of states, just war theory, terrorism, weapons of mass destruction. 
4299:A consideration of the political thought of African Americans, particularly within the context of the broader spectrum of American political thought, and both as reaction and contribution to that thought. 
4300:An examination of major issues in political thought, including equality; obedience; violence and nonviolence; justice; forms of social, economic, and political life; liberty; and human nature and politics. 
4301:A survey course in American political ideas from the 17th century to the present, with emphasis on the role of politics, society, and economy in American thought. 
4302:A survey course in American political ideas from the 17th century to the present, with emphasis on the role of politics, society, and economy in American thought. 
4303:An introduction to 1) conceptual foundations of scientific study of politics, 2) research design, 3) descriptive statistics, and 4) inferential statistics. To accomplish these goals, the course employs class lectures, readings, and problem set assignments. 
4304:This course is designed to provide students with a thorough understanding of the various quantitative research methods available to researchers in social science. No prerequisite is required. The course will focus on experimental methods in political science, including laboratory experiments, field experiments, and survey experiments. 
4305:Introduction to the study of strategic decision making in international relations, with an emphasis on the application of basic game theoretic models. Incorporates in-class simulations of international relations scenarios. 
4306:Offers an introduction to positive political theory, the application of rational choice analysis (or economic models) to the study of political phenomena. Topics include social choice theory, legislative voting, problems of cooperation and collective action, and public choice theory. Encourages students to think about politics from a critical vantage point. 
4307:Exploration of the relationship between race and public policy in the U.S. Primary focus on African Americans, but other racial groups also studied. Key areas include reproductive justice, health care, employment, labor, welfare, education, housing, environmental justice, policing, criminalization, foreign policy, immigration, and war. 
4308:Major issues of contemporary international relations, in conjunction with the Great Decisions lecture series. May be repeated for credit once unless credit has already been received for GLBL 381. May not be taken in the same semester as GLBL 381. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 4 total credits. 2 total completions. 
4309:One course in economics strongly recommended. This interdisciplinary gateway course provides an introduction to subjects and quantitative techniques used to analyze problems in philosophy, political science, and economics. 
4310:This course explores how presidents select policy options, how they decide timing, what shapes their congressional support, and how they build successful coalitions. 
4311:Problems of the national government in managing capitalist development and economic growth; political constraints; patterns of conflict among domestic actors. 
4312:This course uses modern analytic techniques and theories to assess how actual leaders turn their peers into followers. It uses psychology, economics, institutional design, and public administration to criticize our understanding of leadership and the nature of political interactions. The course utilizes a writing-intensive and project-oriented teaching strategy. 
4313:This course provides a survey of the literature on race, immigration, and urban politics in the contemporary United States. The goal is to understand the complex relationship between racial/ethnic identity and local political processes. Students explore topics such as police brutality, immigration, the education system, and coalition politics. 
4314:Advanced topics in state government and politics, including political behavior and processes, governmental institutions, public policies. Emphasis on how states serve as the laboratories of democracy in a federal system. 
4315:Students employ their understanding of political philosophy and practical politics to write a new constitution for the United States. Emphasis is on creative blending of theory and practice. 
4316:A study of the fundamental principles of constitutional interpretation and practice in the United States by means of lectures, textbooks, and cases. Emphasis will be on the political context surrounding and the impact following Supreme Court decisions. 
4317:An analysis of the complex political problems created by the expansion of protection for individual liberties in the United States. Emphasis will be on contemporary problems with some supplemental historical background. 
4318:Course studies United States presidential and congressional elections. Emphasis on individual vote, changing party strengths, and the relation of outcomes to policy. 
4319:Course studies United States presidential and congressional elections. Emphasis on individual vote, changing party strengths, and the relation of outcomes to policy. 
4320:An overview of the theories, problems, and practices of police, courts, and corrections, and the values underlying our adversary system, especially with relation to constitutional principles, judicial integrity, and racial discrimination. 
4321:This course is concerned with traditional substantive criminal law: crime, defenses and excuses to criminal liability, issues of morality attached to criminal law, constitutional limitations on punishments. 
4322:Analysis of the structure and functions of judicial systems emphasizing the organization, administration, and politics of judicial bureaucracies and roles of judges, juries, counsel, litigants, and interested groups in adjudication processes. 
4323:Examines in greater depth issues in the field of political psychology, including conflict and conflict resolution, socialization, attitude formation, mass movements, leader-follower relationships, and psychobiography. 
4324:Junior-senior standing required. Examination of the role, behavior, and influence of the mass media in American politics. 
4325:Restricted to juniors and seniors. Surveys the vast literature on race and politics in the contemporary United States and examines the complex relationship between racial and ethnic identity and political outcomes. It explores broad political science concepts in the context of racial and ethnic groups. 
4326:Restricted to juniors and seniors. Surveys the vast literature on race and politics in the contemporary United States and examines the complex relationship between racial and ethnic identity and political outcomes. It explores broad political science concepts in the context of racial and ethnic groups. 
4327:Examines the politics of the United States Congress. Emphasis on representation, the legislative process, and policy making. 
4328:Examines the politics of the United States Congress. Emphasis on representation, the legislative process, and policy making. 
4329:This course will focus on the process by which policies get framed, or defined, in public discussions. Framing is focusing attention on some elements of a complex public problem rather than others. Readings combine psychological background with case histories of United States and comparative public policy changes over time. 
4330:This class explores the political representation of blacks, Latina/os, women, and gays and lesbians in the American states. How do these groups achieve descriptive and substantive representation? How does state context shape the political representation of these minorities? Students taking this course should have a strong interest in state politics. 
4331:Examines political peace settlements as components of conflict resolution in ethnically or regionally divided societies. The course identifies the aspects of negotiated settlements which seek to manage civil conflict. 
4332:Analyzing the impact of the descriptive representation of marginalized communities on public policy, legislation, and social change. Sexual orientation, identity, gender, ethnicity and race, and the intersectionality of these communities. We seek to understand the role that elected officials can have in driving change, affecting their colleagues and constituents. 
4333:Diversity is sometimes cited as a facilitator of political cooperation but more often it is considered a challenge for constructive civic engagement. This course engages the various ways in which different forms of diversity (e.g., racial, ethnic, religious, linguistic, national origin) and politics interact across a wide range of societies. 
4334:The problems of race, class, and ideology are explored in the countries south of the Zambezi River, along with the political and economic ties that bind these countries. 
4335:This course will compare the theory and practice of tolerance in the United States and Europe, with particular attention to Great Britain and France. 
4336:Examines the politics and political economy of institutional change and policy making in the European Union in comparative perspective. 
4337:Examines the politics and political economy of institutional change and policy making in the European Union in comparative perspective. 
4338:This course provides a survey of 20th-century politics in Mexico, including the construction of the single-party regime under the PRI and the political and economic changes in the second half of the century that marked the end of the one-party regime and inaugurated a new era of political competition. 
4339:The analysis of central issues of democracy and development in Latin America. 
4340:The analysis of central issues of democracy and development in Latin America. 
4341:The analysis of central issues of democracy and development in Latin America. 
4342:This course will address how various nations in Asia are handling the pressures of democratization, the globalization of "democratic norms," and internal challenges to authoritarian regimes. 
4343:Explores the collapse of communist rule in 1989 and the reaction of international institutions to the challenges of democratization, economic transition, ethnic conflict, and European integration in an undivided Europe. 
4344:Dictators do not rely on consent of the people to stay in power. But they do still face constraints and must perform a delicate balancing act to maintain enough support to stay in office and reap its rewards. This class seeks to understand when autocrats are successful and when they fail. 
4345:This course will explore Israeli society, Israeli politics, and the Arab-Israeli conflict. 
4346:Theories of international political economy, major trends in international economic relations, selected contemporary policy issues. 
4347:The role of Congress, the press, public opinion, the president, the secretary and the Department of State, the military, and the intelligence community in making American foreign policy. Emphasizes the impact of the bureaucratic process on the content of foreign policy. students lacking the prerequisite. 
4348:This course explores the causes of terrorist behavior. The course also examines the government's response to terrorism, the internal implications of terrorists' campaigns, and prospects for conflict resolution. 
4349:What happens when countries go broke? This course examines the complex interdependence between taxation, debt, and the development of the state, and considers how politicians have generated and responded to a series of economic crises in the past half century. 
4350:A study of national defense policy as affected by the constitutional and political setting, as well as its relation to foreign policy. Some attention to strategic doctrine. students lacking the prerequisite. 
4351:Immigrant integration has been one of the most intense political issues in Western Europe in recent decades. The extent to which these immigrants have successfully integrated is a hot topic of debate across Europe, and there is no consensus about the best way to promote integration. This course explores these debates. 
4352:This course examines international efforts to punish genocide, crimes against humanity, and war crimes. The evolution of international criminal law, jurisdiction, remedies, problems, alternatives, and recent case studies are included. 
4353:This course examines international efforts to punish genocide, crimes against humanity, and war crimes. The evolution of international criminal law, jurisdiction, remedies, problems, alternatives, and recent case studies is included. 
4354:A comprehensive analysis of hemispheric international relations and foreign policies of individual Latin American nations. 
4355:A comprehensive analysis of hemispheric international relations and foreign policies of individual Latin American nations. 
4356:The purpose of this course is to examine Africa's conflicts using an historical examination and advances in international relations theory. We will examine European colonial intervention, the wars of independence, the Cold War, and the use of proxies, insurgencies, the African World War, the Sudanese War, and the "war of terrorism. 
4357:Analysis of international conflict and the causal mechanisms that drive or prevent conflict. Emphasis is on the conditions and processes of conflict and cooperation between nations. 
4358:Examines the management and resolution of international and civil wars. 
4359:The course explores the development of Euro-Atlantic security institutions (NATO, EU) and compares security policy in the United States and Europe. Cases include policy toward the Balkans, Afghanistan, Russia, and Ukraine. Includes review of concepts of security and selected international relations approaches to international organizations. 
4360:Focuses on ethnic and political conflicts in the former Yugoslavia and efforts by the international community to end conflict and promote peace and reconstruction. 
4361:Focuses on ethnic and political conflicts in the former Yugoslavia and efforts by the international community to end conflict and promote peace and reconstruction. 
4362:An examination of the logic of social and political thought with an analysis of such concepts as society, state, power, authority, freedom, social and political obligation, law, rights. 
4363:Survey of the historical foundations, central tenets, and political consequences of prominent 20th-century political theories. Topics include contemporary liberalism and Marxism, fascism, theories of development, populism, feminism. 
4364:Survey of the historical foundations, central tenets, and political consequences of prominent 20th-century political theories. Topics include contemporary liberalism and Marxism, fascism, theories of development, populism, feminism. 
4365:Major problem areas in democratic theory including definitions, presuppositions, and justifications of democracy, liberty, equality, minority rights, public interest, participation, dissent, and civil disobedience. 
4366:Major problem areas in democratic theory including definitions, presuppositions, and justifications of democracy, liberty, equality, minority rights, public interest, participation, dissent, and civil disobedience. 
4367:Identifies and interprets political ideas using historical and contemporary literary sources. Examines literature as political practice. 
4368:Examines the relationship between religion and politics, with emphasis on the United States. Topics include church-state issues, religious- political movements, religion and public policy, religion and voting. 
4369:A consideration of the political thought of major Marxist and socialist schools--including Marxism, Leninism, contemporary democratic and revolutionary socialism--with reference to utopian socialism and recent controversies on the left. 
4370:Examines in greater depth and complexity current issues in feminist political theory. Topics: theories of subjectivity and solidarity, feminist poststructuralist and post-Marxist thinking, gender in the public sphere. 
4371:Increasingly, political and social scientists are using game theory to analyze strategic interactions across different settings. This course aims to give students a deep technical understanding of the most relevant concepts of game theory and how these concepts have been applied to the study of political and economic phenomena. 
4372:A detailed examination of advanced special topics in political science. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
4373:A detailed examination of advanced special topics in political science. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
4374:Permission of the instructor for undergraduates. Examines recent developments in the European integration process by exploring the potential for political contestation concerning European Union matters in national politics. Familiarizes students with the main theoretical approaches and the extensive empirical work dealing with the effects of European integration. 
4375:Permission of the instructor for undergraduates. Since the collapse of communism from 1989 to 1991, the European Union has faced a fundamentally different geopolitical neighborhood and an evolving relationship with the United States. We will explore how Europe has addressed new challenges to its security in its neighborhood and beyond. 
4376:Permission of the instructor for undergraduates. This seminar introduces students to basic theoretical approaches to both international relations and the European Union by focusing on the European Union's external relations and foreign policies. 
4377:Permission of the instructor for undergraduates. This course examines tolerance and citizenship in the European Union and North America, with particular attention to the United States, Britain, France, Spain, Italy, Germany, and The Netherlands. 
4378:Required of all students in the honors program in political science. 
4379:Required of all students in the honors program in political science. 
4380:Required of all students in the honors program in political science. 
4381:Permission of the department. This capstone course advances PHIL 384, focusing on such theoretical and philosophical issues as the analysis of rights or distributive justice and the institutional implications of moral forms. 
4382:This course will address basic stress management skills; how to develop emotion-focused coping skills and how to use exercise, time management, and assertive communication skills to reduce stress. 
4383:This course will examine the nature of human thought in relation to the operations of contemporary computers and will also consider how computers will likely develop in the future. 
4384:Students will gain an in-depth understanding of evolutionary psychology, a current amalgam of evolutionary biology, psychology, and anthropology that aims to view complex social and personality features of human behavior. 
4385:This course introduces the many ways that research results are disseminated to the public in our everyday lives--through advertising and mass media, Internet, and research-based policy statements. 
4386:This course will consider family from a life-course perspective and family influences on child development. Research and theory concerning divorced and step families, single parents, gay and lesbian parents, and family processes that shape children's development will be examined. 
4387:The course will address relevant literature on children's memory and cognition involving allegations of child sexual abuse. 
4388:The goals of this course are to describe what we know about the psychological development of human infants, to evaluate the procedures that have given rise to that knowledge, and to explore the implications of the knowledge. 
4389:Examines how language use is affected by one's reasoning about the mental activities of others. We will examine the development of language, adult language use, and the language of autistic individuals, who are known to have difficulty reasoning about others' minds. This seminar will follow a discussion format. 
4390:Examines how language use is affected by one's reasoning about the mental activities of others. We will examine the development of language, adult language use, and the language of autistic individuals, who are known to have difficulty reasoning about others' minds. This seminar will follow a discussion format. 
4391:The course will tackle questions through classroom discussions, lectures, movies, writing assignments, and a visit to a research laboratory and a treatment facility. Students will be introduced to fundamental concepts in addiction research. 
4392:The course will tackle questions through classroom discussions, lectures, movies, writing assignments, and a visit to a research laboratory and a treatment facility. Students will be introduced to fundamental concepts in addiction research. 
4393:This course invites students to explore the opportunities presented by the vibrant and emerging field of positive psychology. 
4394:This course explores the psychological underpinnings of prejudice and discrimination. 
4395:This course focuses on understanding people's judgment and decision- making processes in everyday life. Students will draw upon other areas of psychology and other interdisciplinary approaches (e.g., economics, decision sciences). 
4396:Students will learn about anorexia and bulimia nervosa, as well as prevention and treatment efforts. The course explores factors related to these disorders and body image from a psychosocial perspective. Learning will occur through discussions, readings, videos, guest speakers, experimental assignments, writing assignments, and research projects. 
4397:This course deals with the sensory systems of animals. A description of the human senses is included, but senses that differ from our own are emphasized. Some treatment of research methods is also included. Classes will be a mixture of lecture, discussion, and student reports. 
4398:This first-year seminar is designed for students interested in exploring the psychological study of emotion. Topics include theoretical models of emotion process and structure, as well as a review of research questions about emotional expressions, autonomic physiology, affective neuroscience, emotion and reasoning, and emotion and health. 
4399:This seminar examines the connections among racism experiences, racial identity, and mental health with a focus on African American children, adolescents, and young adults. 
4400:This course focuses on the development of critical thinking skills. Students will learn about the scientific method and common thinking errors that impede logic. Emphasis is placed on applying critical thinking skills to beliefs and controversies in psychology and to common superstitions, pseudoscience, and other confusing issues of our time. 
4401:Content varies by semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
4402:Content varies by semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
4403:A survey of major principles of psychology and an introduction to scientific modes of thought about behavior. Students participate in ongoing psychological research in the department. PSYC 101 is a prerequisite for all psychology courses. 
4404:An undergraduate seminar course that is designed to be a participatory intellectual adventure on an advanced, emergent, and stimulating topic within a selected discipline in psychology. This course does not count as credit towards the psychology major. 
4405:Consideration of the methodological principles underlying psychological research, descriptive and inferential techniques, and the manner by which they may be employed to design psychological experiments and analyze behavioral data. Three lecture hours and one laboratory hour a week. 
4406:Consideration of the methodological principles underlying psychological research, descriptive and inferential techniques, and the manner by which they may be employed to design psychological experiments and analyze behavioral data. Three lecture hours and one laboratory hour a week. 
4407:Study of the biological basis of behavior. Emphasis will be placed on human findings and applications. 
4408:Study of the biological basis of behavior. Emphasis will be placed on human findings and applications. 
4409:Topics in Pavlovian and operant (instrumental) conditioning, learning theory, higher order cognitive learning, and application of those principles to mental-health related situations. 
4410:Topics in Pavlovian and operant (instrumental) conditioning, learning theory, higher order cognitive learning, and application of those principles to mental-health related situations. 
4411:Topics in vision, audition, and the lower senses. Receptor mechanisms, psychophysical methods, and selected perceptual phenomena will be discussed. 
4412:Topics in attention; memory; visual, auditory, and other forms of information processing; decision making; and thinking. 
4413:Topics in attention; memory; visual, auditory, and other forms of information processing; decision making; and thinking. 
4414:Overview of clinical psychology: history, scientific basis, and major activities and concerns, including assessment, psychotherapy and other psychological interventions, community psychology, ethics, and professional practice. Students may not receive credit for both PSYC 242 and 505. 
4415:Overview of clinical psychology: history, scientific basis, and major activities and concerns, including assessment, psychotherapy and other psychological interventions, community psychology, ethics, and professional practice. Students may not receive credit for both PSYC 242 and 505. 
4416:Major forms of behavior disorders in children and adults, with an emphasis on description, causation, and treatment. 
4417:Major forms of behavior disorders in children and adults, with an emphasis on description, causation, and treatment. 
4418:Study of the development of social and intellectual behavior in normal children and the processes that underlie this development. Emphasis is typically on theory and research. 
4419:Study of the development of social and intellectual behavior in normal children and the processes that underlie this development. Emphasis is typically on theory and research. 
4420:Introductory survey of experimental social psychology covering attitudes, interpersonal processes, and small groups. 
4421:Introductory survey of experimental social psychology covering attitudes, interpersonal processes, and small groups. 
4422:Experiments in biological, behavioral, cognitive, developmental, personality, and social psychology will be discussed, prepared, performed, and reported. One lecture hour and four laboratory hours per week. 
4423:Various special areas of psychological study, offered as needed. Course may be repeated for credit. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
4424:Various special areas of psychological study, offered as needed. Course may be repeated for credit. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
4425:Permission of the instructor. Service learning component for students enrolled in psychology APPLES courses. May not count toward the major. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
4426:This course extends statistical and data analytic concepts covered in PSYC 210 with direct applications to empirical data commonly encountered in psychological research. Topics include measurement, group comparisons, linear associations, and prediction. An equal balance is placed on statistical concepts, computer-based data analysis, and interpretation of findings. 
4427:Neuroscience seeks to understand the structure and function of the nervous system and brain. This course provides a broad overview of the field. Topics include current methods used in neuroscience, the function of nerve cells, neuroanatomy of the mammalian brain, neuroplasticity, and diseases of the brain. 
4428:This course will examine the use of drugs to alter behavior. Social implications of drug use and methods for preventing and treating drug abuse also will be considered. 
4429:An introduction to the interdisciplinary study of the mind, intelligent behavior, information processing, and communication in living organisms and computers. 
4430:Various special areas of psychological study, offered as needed. Course may be repeated for credit. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
4431:A minimum of a 3.0 cumulative grade point average. Permission of the instructor. Supervised research resulting in a written report. May be repeated for credit up to six hours, but counts only once as a psychology elective. courses, at least one of which must be numbered 200 or greater. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 6 total completions. 
4432:A comprehensive survey of the methods, findings, and theories of classical and operant conditioning. Skills necessary to evaluate, integrate, and summarize significant original literature will be developed. 
4433:PSYC 270 recommended. Ethological, genetic, and physiological variables will be studied in relation to their behavioral effects. 
4434:Elements of neurophysiology, neuroanatomy, and neurochemistry as they apply to the understanding of brain-behavior relationships. 
4435:"Hands on" laboratory course designed to introduce students to experimental protocols emphasizing "brain-behavior" relationships. Topics include gross neuroanatomy, stereotaxic surgery, and the effects of drugs on behavior. 
4436:"Hands on" laboratory course designed to introduce students to experimental protocols emphasizing "brain-behavior" relationships. Topics include gross neuroanatomy, stereotaxic surgery, and the effects of drugs on behavior. 
4437:This course will investigate the pharmacological effects and the clinical efficacy of drugs used to treat behavior disorders. 
4438:In this class, we will consider how neuroscience emerged as a multidisciplinary field. The class will cover key research findings that propelled the field forward. We will also delve into the autobiographies of some of the pioneering researchers who made these important discoveries. 
4439:For advanced undergraduate and graduate students. An introduction to human neuroanatomy, covering function of the neuroanatomy of each major system and relation to neurobehavioral disorders associated with damage to the neuroanatomy of the system. 
4440:This class will explore links between the brain and behavior through neuroscience outreach activities. Students will also reflect on the meaning of community engagement. By the end of the semester, each student must complete a minimum of 30 hours of service within the community. 
4441:This course focuses on current knowledge about the cellular and molecular basis of learning and memory. Course material focuses primarily on hippocampus-dependent memory, considering behavior, cellular physiology, and molecular and genetic contributions. In addition, we will consider learning and memory disorders, including Alzheimer's disease. 
4442:This course will survey clinical and experimental literature regarding the neurobiology of aging, considering different theories of aging, how aging is studied in the laboratory, and recent findings. Biochemical, molecular, physiological, and behavioral changes associated with both "normal" and pathological aging will be considered. 
4443:Neuroscience is a "hot" topic in popular media. We will consider media coverage of neuroscientific research by reading the popular press versions of studies alongside the findings from primary sources and what kinds of topics are most often covered by the media and why. 
4444:This seminar covers current research on psychological, economic, and neuroscientific aspects of decision-making behaviors. Topics include decisions involving risk and uncertainty, decisions that involve learning from experience, and decisions in strategic interactions and games. In addition, we will consider the neural underpinnings of these processes. 
4445:This course explores classic and current issues in the study of human memory. Topics include working memory, encoding and retrieval processes, implicit memory, reconstructive processes in memory, eyewitness memory, developmental changes in memory, neuropsychology and neuroscience of memory and memory disorders, memory improvement, and the repressed/recovered memory controversy. 
4446:This course examines the mental representations and cognitive processes that underlie the human ability to use language. Covers what people know about language, how they process it, and how people make inferences about the speaker's meaning based on context. Recent work in experimental psycholinguistics is discussed. 
4447:Simple mathematical and psychological models of judgment and choice, and related experiments, are treated, as are applications to real world problems in medical, environmental, policy, business, and related domains. 
4448:Introduction to cognitive neuroscience. Higher mental processes including attention, memory, language, and consciousness will be covered, with an emphasis on the neural mechanisms that form the substrates of human cognition. PSYC 220, 222, 225, 230, or BIOL 450, 455. 
4449:Introduces topics in cognitive science by reviewing their use in recent novels. Explores their influence on the novel, and how the novelist might offer relevant insights. 469. 
4450:BIOL 101 recommended. This course surveys current knowledge about and research into the neurobiological basis of learning and memory. Using a combination of lectures and student-led discussions, we will critically evaluate the molecular, cellular, systems, and behavioral research that strives to explain how the brain learns and remembers. 
4451:An examination of the development of attention, perception, learning, memory, and thinking in normal children. 
4452:Developmental processes during early childhood as these relate to social behavior and personality. 
4453:Poverty is one of the most consistent and influential risk factors for problematic development. This course focuses on the scientific study of how poverty affects development across the human life span. 
4454:PSYC 210 or 215 recommended. A survey of the literature on the development of black children. Topics include peer and social relations, self-esteem, identity development, cognitive development, school achievement, parenting, family management, and neighborhood influences. 
4455:Explores how the family influences children's development. Topics include family theories, genetics, family structure (e.g., single parents, working mothers, divorce), discipline, parent behavior and values and beliefs, fathers and ethnic diversity. 
4456:Examines the evolution and development of behavior patterns and their physiological substrates. 
4457:Child and adolescent development within the context of family is examined. Course topics include family theory, cognitive development, divorce, poverty, and gender. Each student will complete a research project. 
4458:The developmental period of adolescence is studied from a multidisciplinary perspective. The course will distinguish among early, middle, and late adolescence and will cover several theoretical perspectives. 
4459:This course examines the effects of racial discrimination among African American, Latino, Asian American, and Native American adolescents using a psychological perspective to critically examine empirical research. The course examines racial discrimination, power, and equity and is recommended for students interested in serious, thought- provoking discussions. 
4460:A description and discussion of research on various aspects of early psychological development that are relevant for the decisions faced by parents, practitioners, and politicians. 
4461:Various special areas of psychological study, offered as needed. Course may be repeated for credit. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 2 total completions. 
4462:Various special areas of psychological study, offered as needed. Course may be repeated for credit. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 2 total completions. 
4463:Required preparation, minimum of two other psychology courses and junior/senior standing. Designed for highly motivated psychology majors interested in exploring professional opportunities in psychology-related areas. Students complete hands-on internships at community sites for approximately 120 hours across the semester. Students also attend a weekly one-hour class with other interns. 
4464:A survey of theories bearing on atypical development and disordered behavior, and an examination of major child and adolescent behavior problems and clinical syndromes. 
4465:An in-depth coverage of the traditional clinically based personality theories of the early 20th century contrasted with more recent empirically based perspectives. 
4466:A developmental approach to the study of adulthood, from young adulthood through death. Topics include adult issues in personality, family dynamics, work, leisure and retirement, biological and intellectual aspects of aging, dying, and bereavement. 
4467:This course examines race and culture in the psychological processes and behavior of African Americans. 
4468:An in-depth coverage of psychological, biological, and social factors that may be involved with health. 
4469:Addresses methods to assess, treat, and rehabilitate older person with serious mental health disorders. 
4470:Intensive service-learning seminar on autism includes a supervised community placement. Topics include historical diagnostic issues, etiological theories, assessing patterns of functioning, developmental/life span issues, family concerns, and intervention approaches. 
4471:PSYC 222 recommended. A survey of applications of learning theory in solving clinical, educational, and societal problems. Practicum experience included. 
4472:This course will review literature regarding peer relations among children and adolescents, including peer acceptance/rejection, popularity, bases of friendship selection, peer crowds, romantic relationships, and theories of peer influence. 
4473:The social, developmental, and biological contributions to mania and depression are examined, as well as the impact of these moods on the brain, creativity, relationships, quality of life, and health. 
4474:Permission of the instructor required. Prevention science is an interdisciplinary field between research and practice, with the goal of developing prevention programs for people's lives. Course will emphasize psychological approaches to preventing substance use as a motivating example. Discussions, lectures, a research project, and an experiential learning component. 
4475:This course offers a multidisciplinary perspective on child maltreatment, including the types of maltreatment to which children are exposed, the prevalence of child maltreatment, and the impact of maltreatment on individual, familial, and societal functioning. 
4476:PSYC 245 and 270 recommended but not required. This course will provide students with a comprehensive overview of the etiology and treatment of addiction, along with exposure to real-life stories of addiction. 
4477:Emphasis on the methodological principles underlying experimental and correlational research. Interaction of theory and practice in the design and interpretation of psychological studies. 
4478:Basic psychometric theory underlying test construction and utilization. Detailed study of issues and instruments used in assessing intellectual functioning, educational progress, personality, and personnel selection. 
4479:This course examines the science of quantitative psychology. Topics include the analysis of data, the design of questionnaires, and the assessment of psychological attributes, among others. 
4480:This course examines the science of quantitative psychology. Topics include the analysis of data, the design of questionnaires, and the assessment of psychological attributes, among others. 
4481:Consideration of multiple regression and the general linear model in psychological research, including hypothesis testing, model formulation, and the analysis of observational and experimental data. STOR 155. 
4482:Consideration of multiple regression and the general linear model in psychological research, including hypothesis testing, model formulation, and the analysis of observational and experimental data. STOR 155. 
4483:Introduction to programming and the implementation of statistical techniques. Topics include data manipulation, graphical procedures, writing loops and functions, data simulation, use of regular expressions, and scraping data from the web. 
4484:PSYC 270 recommended. Content, structure, and functions of the self- concept. How the self-concept is shaped by society and developmental processes; ways in which the self-concept affects perception of others; self-esteem. Class participation and presentations required. 
4485:Theory and research in social psychology, which explores the cognitive processes underlying social phenomena. Specific topics covered include attributions, emotions, automaticity, heuristics, self, goals, stereotyping, expectancies, social motives, and others. 
4486:Theory and research in social psychology, which explores the cognitive processes underlying social phenomena. Specific topics covered include attributions, emotions, automaticity, heuristics, self, goals, stereotyping, expectancies, social motives, and others. 
4487:Intensive survey of research and theory on behavior in small groups combined with appropriate experience in studying various structured groups. 
4488:Intensive coverage of normal interpersonal processes, focusing on the dyad. 
4489:PSYC 270 recommended. Examines the determinants, functions, processes, and consequences of stereotyping, prejudice, and discrimination. Prospects for change are considered. Class presentations and participation required. 
4490:A detailed consideration of the theoretical issues in attitude and belief change. 
4491:Majors only. This advanced course in positive psychology is research intensive and intended as a capstone for majors in psychology. 
4492:This course will provide a comprehensive overview of the scientific study of emotion. Topics will include theoretical models of emotion process and structure. A range of perspectives, including social, cultural, developmental, clinical, and cognitive psychology, as well as behavioral neuroscience, will be considered. 
4493:Surveys cutting-edge research across the field of social psychology and how it matters for everyday life. Topics include morality, mind perception, judgment and decision making, happiness, affective forecasting, emotion, relationships, negotiation, personality, free will, stress/health, and religion. Clear communication of research also emphasized through figures, presentations, and papers. 
4494:PSYC 270 recommended. An intensive review of self-regulation theory and research, focusing on the cognitive, motivational, and affective processes involved in goal commitment, monitoring, and overriding behavioral responses. 
4495:Limited to senior majors or to graduate students in psychology; others by permission of the instructor. Overview of the origins of psychological concepts, movements, and fields of study. 
4496:Examines the legal system from the perspective of psychology methods and research, with a focus on criminal law. Discusses dilemmas within the law and between the legal system and psychology. 
4497:Major topics of general psychology are examined from an evolutionary perspective with an emphasis on empirical studies asking why much current human behavior and experience would have been adaptive for our early ancestors. 
4498:Required preparation, cumulative GPA of 3.3, psychology GPA of 3.5, one semester of PSYC 395, and acceptance through application to the honors committee. To be taken in the fall of the last year of studies as the first course in the two-semester honors sequence. Students conduct research under the direction of a faculty advisor and receive classroom instruction in research-related topics. 
4499:Rapid recent globalization raises important public policy issues concerning impacts on the environment, labor, and communities. The seminar provides an opportunity to explore the implications of living in an increasingly global economy and the ethical and policy issues that these trends pose. 
4500:This seminar explores linkages among nations, global environmental institutions, and the environmental problems they cause and seek to rectify. The course will examine how global environmental policy is made, with specific attention to the roles of institutions, nations, commercial and nonprofit entities. 
4501:Immigration. 3 Credits. This seminar provides students with an opportunity to discuss current topics in United States immigration. Students will explore theories of migration, acculturation and assimilation, and the ways in which policies influence the well-being of immigrants. 
4502:This seminar will define a policy entrepreneur and examine strategies used by policy entrepreneurs to achieve policy change or innovation in the policy making process. We will also explore models of innovative public-private partnerships in the delivery of public goods. 
4503:This seminar will define a policy entrepreneur and examine strategies used by policy entrepreneurs to achieve policy change or innovation in the policy making process. We will also explore models of innovative public-private partnerships in the delivery of public goods. 
4504:Course explores some of the profound differences between campaigning and governing; significant changes in the art of campaigning; and critical social, economic, and cultural changes that have taken place in the United States since the historic 1960 presidential campaign and passage of the 1964 Civil Rights Act. 
4505:This seminar investigates the value of equality, and asks which forms of inequality are unjust and ought to be addressed by governments. Topics include income inequality, political inequality, marriage inequality, racial inequality, and global inequality. 
4506:Is inequality a policy choice? Students in this course will examine and participate in debates around whether and which policies have the capacity to create, sustain, exacerbate, and/or ameliorate inequalities in the United States. 
4507:This course provides students with a variety of opportunities to understand the epidemiologic trends in world health, the institutions of global health governance, and the effects of globalization on global and national health policy. 
4508:This seminar provides an introduction to entrepreneurship and innovation and considers their relationship to economic growth. 
4509:This seminar provides an introduction to entrepreneurship and innovation and considers their relationship to economic growth. 
4510:Examines the role of schools and other institutions play in determining life chances, which educational interventions work well for economically and academically disadvantaged students, and what to do when institutions cease to work well. Students will learn how to analyze complex educational public policy problems. 
4511:Examines the role of schools and other institutions play in determining life chances, which educational interventions work well for economically and academically disadvantaged students, and what to do when institutions cease to work well. Students will learn how to analyze complex educational public policy problems. 
4512:Special topics course. Content will vary each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
4513:Overview of the policymaking process and of major public policy issues. Study of policy and political challenges in areas such as economic and tax policy, the social safety net, income support and the minimum wage, health care, education, environment and energy, foreign policy and national security, and homeland security. 
4514:Overview of the policymaking process and of major public policy issues. Study of policy and political challenges in areas such as economic and tax policy, the social safety net, income support and the minimum wage, health care, education, environment and energy, foreign policy and national security, and homeland security. 
4515:Global issues are challenges whose sources, impacts, and solutions extend beyond the borders of any one country. This course introduces students to some of the most pressing issues facing populations around the globe and to possible policy responses. 
4516:Global issues are challenges whose sources, impacts, and solutions extend beyond the borders of any one country. This course introduces students to some of the most pressing issues facing populations around the globe and to possible policy responses. 
4517:Workshop open only to students who have received the APPLES Bryan Social Innovation Fellowship. Each fellowship team develops a project's underlying theory of change and the skills necessary for successful implementation. Students study the theories and implementation of one another's projects and external case studies. 
4518:Selected topics in public policy. 
4519:Permission of the instructor. Undergraduate research in public policy. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
4520:Supervised study for students interested in public policy. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
4521:There is a need to define innovative solutions to public policy problems, to provide analysis of different alternatives, and to create a plan that would benefit the largest number of stakeholders. This course focuses on the process of constructing, evaluating, and deciding among alternatives based on their ability to satisfy society's goals. 
4522:There is a need to define innovative solutions to public policy problems, to provide analysis of different alternatives, and to create a plan that would benefit the largest number of stakeholders. This course focuses on the process of constructing, evaluating, and deciding among alternatives based on their ability to satisfy society's goals. 
4523:Examines approaches to American politics and public policy and analyzes why government responds to problems in predictable ways. 
4524:Examines approaches to American politics and public policy and analyzes why government responds to problems in predictable ways. 
4525:This course explores the uses of history and historical perspectives for public policy. Students will learn how historical processes have shaped today's public policies and examine how the origins and development of a policy can inform current policy decisions. 
4526:Special topics in public policy for undergraduates. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
4527:For public policy majors and minors. Permission of the instructor. Offers students the opportunity to integrate and apply academic knowledge and skills by assuming active roles in nonprofit, nongovernmental, or government organizations. Under supervision of a mentor, students gain valuable knowledge that prepares them for the labor market after graduation. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
4528:Permission of the instructor. Independent reading/study in public policy. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
4529:Students will learn and practice the use of a range of tools and techniques for communicating information about complex public policy issues to diverse audiences. Emphasis on written communication and visualization techniques to explore and explain patterns in large data sets. 
4530:Examines students' knowledge and understanding of social entrepreneurship as an innovative approach to addressing complex social needs. Affords students the opportunity to engage in a business planning exercise designed to assist them in establishing and launching a social purpose entrepreneurial venture. 
4531:A historical overview of the role and importance of entrepreneurship in the economy and society, and a survey of the critical competencies all entrepreneurs (social, commercial, or artistic) must possess. 
4532:This seminar explores arguments about moral issues in public policy. Students examine both the means used to implement policies and policy ends through discussions of case studies of policy choice. 
4533:This seminar explores arguments about moral issues in public policy. Students examine both the means used to implement policies and policy ends through discussions of case studies of policy choice. 
4534:The objective of this course is to enhance students' understanding of the causes and consequences of United States immigration within a social, historical, political, and economic context. 
4535:This is a graded seminar course that focuses on a study of domestic and international affairs within the United States policy-making process. This seminar is taught in Washington, DC. Students must apply for this program with UNC Study Abroad. 
4536:A range of public policy topics at the state and local level. 
4537:An analysis of the evolution of American medical care with special emphasis on current health care policy issues and debates about future directions. Compares other national models to those of the United States. 
4538:Recommended preparation, at least one course in ethics (PHIL 160, 163, or 170) or one course in economics. Issues at the intersection of ethics and economics, including value; the relation between values and preferences; rationality; the relevance to economics of rights, justice, and the value of human life. 
4539:Public policies affect men and women differently, and they participate differently in the policy-making process. This course examines several key areas of public policy, some expressly related to gender or sexuality and others that have significantly gendered impacts, organized around four themes: family, labor, body, and the world. 
4540:This course will provide an overview of some of the most challenging energy issues of the 21st century and will cover the tools and perspectives necessary to analyze those problems. 
4541:Explores linkages among actors, institutions, and the environmental problems they cause and seek to rectify. Introduces pressing challenges of the global environment and perspectives of actors involved in crafting policy solutions. 
4542:Law is one of the main technologies of action of individuals and of the American state. This seminar offers useful ways of thinking about the relationship between law and public policy. 
4543:Special topics in public policy for undergraduate students. 
4544:Permission of the instructor. The clinic offers students the opportunity to apply their academic knowledge by collaborating with local nonprofits and governmental agencies. Under faculty guidance, students identify, explore, and recommend solutions for real-world public policy problems while developing skills in team building and professional leadership. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
4545:Permission of the instructor. Research in public policy for undergraduates. . Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
4546:By special arrangement and permission of the instructor. Independent reading in public policy. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
4547:This course allows students to enhance their working knowledge of microeconomic theory, explore microeconomic theory as a methodology to solve policy problems, understand market failures and the role of collective action in markets, apply economic models to a variety of policy situations, and evaluate and critique economic analyses. 
4548:Many risks and shocks can make individuals and families vulnerable to economic hardship. This course examines America's social policy regime through a wide-ranging investigation of the origins, development, and future of critical features of our social safety net. We pay particular attention to challenges emerging in the era of globalization. 
4549:Course explores contemporary threats to national security, approaches to national security strategy, policy instruments, the role of military force, and the policy-making process. 
4550:Growing economic inequality has been identified as a pressing public policy problem in a number of countries. In this course, we explore the justice of economic inequality. Is economic inequality ever morally permissible? If so, for what reasons? 
4551:Examines the nature of Islamic fundamentalist terrorism and strategies for addressing it, including analysis of post-9/11 changes to United States national security strategy, law enforcement and intelligence, and homeland security. 
4552:Application of statistical techniques, including regression analysis, in public policy program evaluation, research design, and data collection and management. 
4553:This course focuses on competition policy in the United States using relevant Supreme Court decisions as well as economic and policy-related motivation for specific business behavior. 
4554:This course examines the political and economic dimensions of the food we eat, how it is produced, who eats what, and related social and environmental issues, both domestic and international, affecting the production, pricing, trade, distribution, and consumption of food. 
4555:Introduces factors shaping environmental decision making by individuals, businesses, governments, advocacy groups, and international institutions. Explores public policy incentives and action strategies for influencing them. 
4556:This course provides an understanding of how poverty is defined, the consequences of poverty, and policies to reduce poverty. It explores the determinants of human development outcomes from an interdisciplinary perspective (with a heavy economics focus). 
4557:Special topics in public policy for undergraduate and graduate students. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
4558:An approved internship or the consent of the instructor is required. Open only to PLCY majors in the entrepreneurship minor. Students spend a minimum of eight weeks in an entrepreneurial environment taking on significant responsibilities and working on a specific project that result in a rigorous agreed-upon deliverable. 
4559:By special arrangement and permission of the instructor. Independent reading in public policy. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
4560:Reviews environmental problems in developing countries. Analyzes proposed solutions, such as legal remedies, market instruments, corporate voluntary approaches, international agreements, and development policies. Discusses the link between trade and environment, environmental cases from the World Trade Organization, and sustainable development. 
4561:This course provides a foundation in public finance theory and applications. Students learn to analyze taxation policies and expenditures on income redistribution, programs for the poor (e.g., TANF), and social insurance programs (e.g., Social Security). 
4562:This course provides a foundation in public finance theory and applications. Students learn to analyze taxation policies and expenditures on income redistribution, programs for the poor (e.g., TANF), and social insurance programs (e.g., Social Security). 
4563:Reviews current debates and policy solutions in education. Topics analyzed through three of the most commonly used evaluative criteria: equity, efficiency, and effectiveness. Topics: equality of educational opportunity, racial segregation, the black-white test score gap, school choice, and the use of incentives to promote increased performance. Lecture, case studies, discussion. 
4564:Reviews current debates and policy solutions in education. Topics analyzed through three of the most commonly used evaluative criteria: equity, efficiency, and effectiveness. Topics: equality of educational opportunity, racial segregation, the black-white test score gap, school choice, and the use of incentives to promote increased performance. Lecture, case studies, discussion. 
4565:Coursework will focus on public policy approaches to global health, employing interdisciplinary methodologies to understand selected public health policies, programs, and interventions. For students who have a basic understanding of public health. 
4566:Course focuses on rights-based approaches to health, applying a human rights perspective to selected public health policies, programs, and interventions. Students will apply a formalistic human rights framework to critical public health issues, exploring human rights as both a safeguard against harm and a catalyst for health promotion. 
4567:Introduction to analysis of science policy. Course explores how events transformed science's role in American life and how science relates to industry and economic development. Topics include the mechanisms of allocating scientific resources, the commercialization of academic discoveries, regulating emerging technology, and achieving consensus on controversial scientific issues. 
4568:An introduction to some of the sectors within which social change work occurs: education, health care, local policy, philanthropy, and non- profit direct-service. Students will learn the fundamental systems of governance and accountability that guide them, and the opportunities or barriers that motivate and de-motivate people working within them. 
4569:Students will explore the scientific method as applied to policy research. They will formulate testable policy research questions, become familiar with methods for conducting policy research, and learn to think critically about causal inference. 
4570:Intensive introduction to environmental management and policy, including environmental and health risks; policy institutions, processes, and instruments; policy analysis; and major elements of American environmental policy. Lectures and case studies. Three lecture hours per week. 
4571:Special topics for undergraduate and graduate students. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
4572:Permission of the instructor. Independent reading in public policy. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
4573:Design of public policy instruments as incentives for sustainable management of environmental resources and ecosystems, and comparison of the effects and effectiveness of alternative policies. 
4574:Special topics for graduate or undergraduate students. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
4575:Permission of the instructor. In preparing their honors theses, students will formulate a testable policy research question, design a study to answer this research question, and learn to think critically about causal inference. 
4576:Permission of the instructor. For senior public policy majors. Directed research for the honors thesis. Students may only receive credit for one semester of this course. An application for enrollment must be completed by the student and approved by the director of the public policy honors program. 
4577:Permission of the instructor. Independent reading in public policy. 
4578:Students apply knowledge and skills gained in the major to a real-world policy problem. In small teams, students produce actionable, client- centered, public policy analysis for a government agency or nonprofit organization. Students also develop skills in team work, leadership, communication, professional etiquette, and time management. 
4579:How does religion become a source of ethnic or racial prejudice among religious practitioners? When does prejudice against religious persons constitute a form of racism? This class explores answers to these questions by examining the connections between religion and racism in modern societies like the United States and South Africa. 
4580:This course explores the ways in which religion, magic, and science are defined in the modern world and the different forms in which supernaturalism circulates within contemporary culture. 
4581:Christian orthodox beliefs or practices often get formulated expressly to marginalize a viewpoint or community considered too radical. This course examines a variety of Western Christian dissenters and the authorities who opposed them: Gnostics; medieval, Spanish, and Latin American inquisitions; Protestant Anabaptists; witches; Galileo; Mormons; and Pentecostals. 
4582:In this seminar students learn about the Dead Sea Scrolls, ancient manuscripts dating to the time of Jesus from caves around the site of Qumran by the Dead Sea. They include early copies of the Hebrew Bible (Old Testament) and sectarian works belonging to the Jewish community that lived in Qumran. 
4583:An introduction to the Islamic religious tradition, focusing on major themes of Islamic religious thought, bringing out both traditional spirituality and the critical issues confronting Muslims today. 
4584:This course examines the conflicting ways in which ancient myth, science, and philosophy explained creation of the universe, origins of mankind, nature of dreams, and foundations of culture. 
4585:Introduces students to Buddhism and traces its history in the United States, highlighting the period since 1965. It focuses on immigrants, converts, and the cultural influence of Buddhism in America. 
4586:This course explores how different religious traditions conceive of human nature and cultural personhood, and the ways that these understandings are reflected in diverse forms of personal identity and public life. 
4587:A comparative examination of prophet, scientist, and poet as critics and creators of the entrepreneurial outlook and sensibility in individuals and organizations with special attention to innovator's dilemmas. 
4588:A comparative examination of prophet, scientist, and poet as critics and creators of the entrepreneurial outlook and sensibility in individuals and organizations with special attention to innovator's dilemmas. 
4589:Taking a global perspective, the course compares the manners in which Jewish communities in America, Israel, Europe, Asia, and Africa have accommodated themselves to the changing norms in gender and sexuality in the last generation. 
4590:This seminar explores the ways the historical Jesus has been portrayed in the writings of modern scholars and films of the 20th and 21st centuries. 
4591:What does it mean to be ethically literate in the age of information technology? Philosophical and historical inquiries into organizational practices and styles of life. 
4592:This course explores the messianic idea in America as well as the messianic movements that have been active in the nation's history and their interaction with American society and culture. 
4593:This course examines the cultural construction of animals in Japanese myth, folklore, and religion. 
4594:This course examines the cultural construction of animals in Japanese myth, folklore, and religion. 
4595:Within the vast field of activity called "religion," this course examines how people and societies give meaning to the relation between human organisms and the universe in time and space. 
4596:Within the vast field of activity called "religion," this course examines how people and societies give meaning to the relation between human organisms and the universe in time and space. 
4597:This course will consider the questions of debt, loss, and surrender as we explore the problem of sacrifice. Readings will address the associated problems of violence, transgression, and animality. 
4598:This seminar explores the many ways that different religions and cultures have imagined spiritual wealth, secular riches, and the appropriate modes of interaction between them in different places and times. 
4599:This seminar asks why some people choose to take life (their own or another's) for religious purposes and how texts, practices, and communities shape these motives. Focuses on martyrological traditions in Western religions, but also tracks idioms of war, sacrifice, and ritualized suffering in other religious contexts and secular discourses. 
4600:An introduction to the interpretation of the Hebrew Bible/Old Testament. We will look at the biblical text as modern interpreters and through the eyes of the Bible's earliest Jewish and Christian interpreters with special attention to changing assumptions about how to read the Bible and the nature of Scripture itself. 
4601:This course investigates the figure of the human animal in religion and philosophy. What kind of animal is the human, and what separates humans from animals? We will consider how attending to distinctions between humans and animals can highlight varying ideological and religious viewpoints. 
4602:This course approaches the central role of discourses about sexual norms, marriage, and family in select religious traditions. It asks how religious traditions have defined and negotiated normative models for marriage and family in their connection to larger theological frameworks and religious source texts. 
4603:In this seminar we will read several books. Most of them are bestsellers and can be described as "historical novels." Having these books as a starting point, we will explore religion and society in Europe and the Middle East in the medieval and early modern period. 
4604:Special topics course. Content will vary each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
4605:An introduction to the academic study of religion that considers approaches to the interpretation of religion and includes study of several religious traditions. 
4606:This course examines forms of religious expression as embodied in several important religious traditions. It investigates religious experience; myth and ritual; teachings and scripture; historical, social, and artistic aspects of religion; and the nature and function of religion in society, with a special focus on ethics and values. 
4607:This course introduces students to the various books of the Hebrew Bible and to the history and culture of ancient Israel, focusing on the formation of national identity, ancient conceptualizations of divinity, ritual practice, and modes of social regulation, all of which are set against the background of the ancient Near East. 
4608:This course introduces students to the various books of the Hebrew Bible and to the history and culture of ancient Israel, focusing on the formation of national identity, ancient conceptualizations of divinity, ritual practice, and modes of social regulation, all of which are set against the background of the ancient Near East. 
4609:This course introduces students to New Testament literature and to the faith of the early Christian communities, focusing on Jewish and Greco- Roman background, the development of the gospel traditions, the life and ministry of Jesus, the ministry of Paul, the post-Pauline era, and the literature of the Johannine circle. 
4610:This course introduces students to New Testament literature and to the faith of the early Christian communities, focusing on Jewish and Greco- Roman background, the development of the gospel traditions, the life and ministry of Jesus, the ministry of Paul, the post-Pauline era, and the literature of the Johannine circle. 
4611:An introduction to religions and the religious life of the ancient world (1000 BCE-300 CE) in various cultural settings: Greek cities, cosmopolitan Hellenistic kingdoms in Egypt and Syria, and the Roman Empire. 
4612:This course surveys Jewish history and religion during the Second Temple and Rabbinic periods, from the destruction of the First Jewish Temple (Solomon's Temple) in 586 BCE to the Muslim conquest of Palestine (640 CE). 
4613:The course offers a comprehensive understanding of the development of Judaism from the late Middle Ages to contemporary times. 
4614:This course will explore Jewish literary works that are considered "fundamental," "classic," "traditional" (often, all of the above), including the Hebrew Bible, the Mishnah, the Babylonian Talmud, midrashic collections, works by Maimonides, major codes of Jewish law, major kabbalistic, philosophic, poetic, and ethical works, hassidic compositions, and more. 
4615:An examination extending from Hebrew origins to the Babylonian exile and including political history as well as social and religious institutions. 
4616:An examination extending from Hebrew origins to the Babylonian exile and including political history as well as social and religious institutions. 
4617:This course surveys the archaeology of Palestine (modern Israel and Jordan) from the Persian period (ca. 586 BCE) to the Muslim conquest (640 CE). 
4618:An overview of the history and culture of the ancient Near East, from the birth of writing through the first millennium BCE, covering the regions of Mesopotamia, Egypt, Anatolia, and Syria-Palestine. 
4619:An introductory course that explores relations between religion and culture through the examination of social theory and the analysis of case studies. The case studies focus on such issues as visual culture, ritual, media, gender, and politics. 
4620:An introductory course that explores relations between religion and culture through the examination of social theory and the analysis of case studies. The case studies focus on such issues as visual culture, ritual, media, gender, and politics. 
4621:An introduction to philosophical approaches to the study of religion, exploring such topics as religious language and experience, the problem of evil, the relation between religious belief and practice, and issues of religious diversity. 
4622:An introduction to philosophical approaches to the study of religion, exploring such topics as religious language and experience, the problem of evil, the relation between religious belief and practice, and issues of religious diversity. 
4623:An introduction to the broad scope of Jewish history, culture, and identity, from biblical times to the 21st century and from the Middle East to the New World. 
4624:This course will explore cultural development and significance of religious notions of an afterlife. Are they coherent? What alternative notions of life after death can we imagine? 
4625:A philosophical inquiry into the problems of religious experience and belief, as expressed in philosophic, religious, and literary documents from traditional and contemporary sources. 
4626:A philosophical inquiry into the problems of religious experience and belief, as expressed in philosophic, religious, and literary documents from traditional and contemporary sources. 
4627:The proposition that God exists is treated as a scientific hypothesis. Evidence for and against the hypothesis. The status of other minds and free will in science and religion. Conflicting views about creation, revelation, miracles, and prayers. 
4628:A study of the nature, methods, and aims of ethics as seen in exemplary persons and actions with emphasis on religious and social context and contemporary problems. 
4629:A study of the nature, methods, and aims of ethics as seen in exemplary persons and actions with emphasis on religious and social context and contemporary problems. 
4630:Problems in the study of ethics in the new worlds of information technology. 
4631:This course explores the development of religious liberty and freedom of conscience in Western culture by examining both the historical emergence of these concepts and important contemporary controversies. 
4632:An introduction to the history, themes, and issues in American religion from the precolonial period to the present. 
4633:An introduction to the history, themes, and issues in American religion from the precolonial period to the present. 
4634:Survey of the historical development of various African American religious traditions, with emphasis on folk spirituality, gender issues, black nationalism, and the role of the church in the black community. 
4635:Survey of the historical development of various African American religious traditions, with emphasis on folk spirituality, gender issues, black nationalism, and the role of the church in the black community. 
4636:An introduction to Roman Catholicism in the United States. 
4637:An examination of Judaism in its two major centers, demonstrating how different social and cultural environments shape very different interpretations and practices of the Jewish tradition. 
4638:This course surveys the history of Latin American religious traditions from precontact to the present. It explores the contributions of African, indigenous, and European traditions as well as the extraordinary combinations that resulted from their interaction. 
4639:Analysis of continuities and innovations in the history of Christian traditions in the West and globally. 
4640:Analysis of continuities and innovations in the history of Christian traditions in the West and globally. 
4641:This course provides students with a first glimpse and insight into the Catholic tradition, past, present, and future: its beliefs, structure, aims, successes, and failures. 
4642:During the Middle Ages and the early modern era, various inquisitions used legal inquiry and torture to determine the boundaries of heresy. This course surveys the influence of these regimes on the doctrine, practices, and morality of heretics, mystics, witches, Jews, and Muslims, in the interest of delimiting "orthodox" Catholicism. 
4643:Comparative study of mysticism in several religious traditions, Eastern and Western. 
4644:Comparative study of mysticism in several religious traditions, Eastern and Western. 
4645:Permission of the instructor. A religious studies approach to the rituals, cultures, and disciplines of the university, assessing the ways in which explanatory ideals are embedded, changed, and promoted. 
4646:Permission of the instructor. A religious studies approach to the rituals, cultures, and disciplines of the university, assessing the ways in which explanatory ideals are embedded, changed, and promoted. 
4647:A broad, comprehensive, and interdisciplinary introduction to the traditional civilization of the Muslim world. Students may not receive credit for both RELI 180/ASIA 180 and ASIA 138/HIST 138. 
4648:This course surveys important developments in modern Muslim societies since the 16th century and up to the present. Topics covered include Muslim experiences with colonialism and nationalism, modernist reform movements, fundamentalism, women's activism and changes in Qur'an interpretation, Islamic law, and religious practice. Students may not receive credit for both RELI 181/ASIA 181 and ASIA 139/HIST 139. 
4649:An introduction to major religions of South Asia and East Asia, such as Hinduism, Sikhism, Buddhism, Confucianism, Daoism, and Shinto. 
4650:This course surveys East Asian religions and their relationship with the natural world. It provides an East Asian religious perspective on environmental thought and an environmental perspective on East Asian religions. We will explore parallels and divergences, and how each can enrich and critique the other. 
4651:A survey of gender roles in Muslim societies from the advent of Islam to the present. It explores how Muslims have interpreted the Qur'an to determine discourses on gender and sexuality and emphasizes the role of religious authority as well as historical/geographical contexts for Muslim women's lives. 
4652:A survey of gender roles in Muslim societies from the advent of Islam to the present. It explores how Muslims have interpreted the Qur'an to determine discourses on gender and sexuality and emphasizes the role of religious authority as well as historical/geographical contexts for Muslim women's lives. 
4653:Permission of the instructor. Subject matter will vary with instructor but will always be focused on a particular problem or issue. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
4654:The course looks at the origins of biblical interpretation, how the Hebrew Bible was interpreted around the turn of the Common Era, the key formative period for early Christianity and rabbinic Judaism. We consider the nature of interpretation as an endeavor, as well as how the Bible came to be viewed as Scripture. 
4655:This course examines the religious phenomenon of sacrifice with a focus on examples from the ancient Mediterranean world (including Greece, ancient Israel, and the Near East). 
4656:This course examines the religious phenomenon of sacrifice with a focus on examples from the ancient Mediterranean world (including Greece, ancient Israel, and the Near East). 
4657:An examination of prophecy and divination in the Israelite-Jewish traditions and in their environments, including an analysis of the major biblical prophets. 
4658:An examination of prophecy and divination in the Israelite-Jewish traditions and in their environments, including an analysis of the major biblical prophets. 
4659:An analysis of the variety of traditions used in the first two centuries to portray Jesus, focusing on the reasons for this variety and the historical and literary problems it presents. 
4660:An analysis of the origin of the Christian church and its early expansion, with particular emphasis on the problems evident in the shift from a Jewish to a Gentile framework. Paul's role in defining and resolving the issues is considered in detail and evaluated in the light of subsequent events. 
4661:A study of various forms of Christianity in the second and third centuries (e.g., Gnosticism, Marcionism, Montanism), focusing on their polemical relationship to orthodox Christianity. 
4662:A study of various forms of Christianity in the second and third centuries (e.g., Gnosticism, Marcionism, Montanism), focusing on their polemical relationship to orthodox Christianity. 
4663:An introduction to the culture and history of ancient Israel through an exploration of the language of the Hebrew Bible. Students will learn the essentials for basic engagement with biblical Hebrew, then consider what this linguistic evidence reveals about the historical and cultural background of the Hebrew Bible. 
4664:This course explores the linguistic background of the Hebrew Bible, giving special attention to the literary aspect of biblical interpretation. Specific topics include the forms of the Hebrew verb, prose and poetic genres in the Hebrew Bible, wordplay and repetition, narration and dialogue. 
4665:A comprehensive survey of ancient Christian Gnosticism, one of the earliest and most long-lived branches of early Christianity, with principal readings drawn from the famous "Nag Hammadi Library. 
4666:A comprehensive survey of ancient Christian Gnosticism, one of the earliest and most long-lived branches of early Christianity, with principal readings drawn from the famous "Nag Hammadi Library. 
4667:This course draws on a variety of cultural documents to explore both the conflict and cross fertilization between the Christian and Islamic cultures of the Middle Ages. Readings and discussions in English. 
4668:Representative themes and approaches in the work of modern Western religious thinkers. 
4669:This course examines how contemporary thinkers have considered philosophy, ethics, and theology from a Jewish perspective. Methodological points of inquiry include: the role of interpretation in Judaism, revelation and redemption, authority and tradition, pluralism and inclusion, suffering and evil, gender and Jewish philosophy, and 20th- century approaches to God. 
4670:This course examines how contemporary thinkers have considered philosophy, ethics, and theology from a Jewish perspective. Methodological points of inquiry include: the role of interpretation in Judaism, revelation and redemption, authority and tradition, pluralism and inclusion, suffering and evil, gender and Jewish philosophy, and 20th- century approaches to God. 
4671:This course explores the range of cultural manifestations of Christianity in the contemporary world, focusing particularly on differences of race, ethnicity, gender, geography, and class. 
4672:This course investigates the figure of the human animal in religion and philosophy. What kind of animal is the human, and what separates humans from animals? We will consider how attending to distinctions between humans and animals can highlight varying ideological and religious viewpoints. 
4673:An introduction to the study of shrines and pilgrimage in multiple cultural contexts. 
4674:This course examines the problematic interplay between religion and violence. It engages and tests accusations that religion is inherently violent through the reading of sacred texts, historical cases, and critical theories. 
4675:Takes an historical sociology approach to the study of Christianity. Examines the social conditions that helped give rise to the early Christian movement, follows Christianity as it influences and is influenced by social forces at key points in its historical development, and considers important contemporary developments around the globe. 
4676:A consideration of the attitudes toward place and space as they are expressed in religious ritual and artifact. 
4677:An introduction to religion and visual culture in the United States. The course focuses on painting, ritual objects, and architecture. 
4678:A study of the role of Jews and the "Jewish question" in German culture from 1750 to the Holocaust and beyond. Discussions and texts (literary, political, theological) in English. 
4679:Engages literary, performing, and visual arts to explore religion in American culture. 
4680:Engages literary, performing, and visual arts to explore religion in American culture. 
4681:The course examines messianic movements in American history raising the questions, What has been the impact of such movements on the nation? What makes America particularly conducive to such movements? 
4682:An introduction to new religious movements in the United States, with emphasis on the nature of conversion and the role of founders. 
4683:Course provides a comprehensive introduction to American Judaism, its various movements, institutions, theological, and liturgical characteristics, as well as its standing within the larger framework of religious life in America. 
4684:An examination of the development of teachings on issues of gender and sexuality through the history of Western Christianity, with particular focus on contemporary controversies. 
4685:An examination of the development of teachings on issues of gender and sexuality through the history of Western Christianity, with particular focus on contemporary controversies. 
4686:The goal of this course is to orient students in the great diversity of Latina and Latino religious formations in the United States today. Focusing on Indigenous, African, and Catholic Creole "inspirations," this course will focus students to the emergence of a distinctly U.S. Latina/o religious experience. 
4687:The goal of this course is to orient students in the great diversity of Latina and Latino religious formations in the United States today. Focusing on Indigenous, African, and Catholic Creole "inspirations," this course will focus students to the emergence of a distinctly U.S. Latina/o religious experience. 
4688:This course examines accounts of supernatural beings such as zombies and vampires and aims to understand them as popular ways of making sense of the world in the context of uneven and frequently unsettling processes of modernization, neoliberalism, and globalization. 
4689:This course examines accounts of supernatural beings such as zombies and vampires and aims to understand them as popular ways of making sense of the world in the context of uneven and frequently unsettling processes of modernization, neoliberalism, and globalization. 
4690:This course surveys Muslim communities in North America in their religious, historical, political, social, and cultural dimensions. Discussion frames include methods for the study of American Muslims, the role of public and media representations of Islam and Muslims, and the place of American Muslims within the larger American religious landscape. 
4691:This course surveys Muslim communities in North America in their religious, historical, political, social, and cultural dimensions. Discussion frames include methods for the study of American Muslims, the role of public and media representations of Islam and Muslims, and the place of American Muslims within the larger American religious landscape. 
4692:This course explores the cultural manifestations of Christianity in the medieval and Renaissance worlds, focusing particularly on interactions with other religions and on differences of gender, geography, and class. 
4693:Examines the diverse beliefs, practices, and cultures associated with Buddhism in the Himalayan regions of India, Nepal, and Tibet. Topics include Buddhism's development and spread, the cultural dynamics of Himalayan societies, monasticism, folk religion, revivalism, tourism, gender, globalization, and the role of the state in shaping Buddhist life and culture. 
4694:An examination of the development of Buddhism after its importation to East Asia. 
4695:This course explores the Theravada school of Buddhism and themes in the social, cultural, and political lives of the Theravada Buddhist countries of Southeast Asia and Sri Lanka. 
4696:Historical survey of the major premodern religious traditions in Japan: Shinto, Buddhism, Shugendo, and Christianity. 
4697:Survey of the major religious traditions in modern and contemporary Japan: Shinto, Buddhism, and the New Religions. 
4698:Historical introduction to Chinese religions: Confucianism, Daoism, Buddhism, and folk religion. 
4699:An introduction to the life and significance of the Prophet Muhammad and the sacred scripture of Islam, the Qur'an. It offers discussion of textual sources for Muhammad's biography; his emulation and veneration in Muslim societies; and the nature, compilation, reception history, and range of interpretations of the Qur'an. 
4700:This course addresses terms such as "the sacred," "sacrifice," "the dead," "divinity," and "possession" to explore the limitations and new potentials of religious studies for describing human experience. 
4701:Introduction to basic thinking about cultural difference (race, gender, nationality, religion, etc.). The course encourages students to examine the ways paradigms shape how we act, think, and imagine as members of diverse cultures in the United States. 
4702:Critical exploration of the ways in which religion, magic, and science have been constructed as distinct domains of knowledge in the West since the late 19th century. 
4703:The course comes to provide students with historical and theological knowledge and conceptual tools that will enable them to understand the very rich and diverse Protestant tradition. 
4704:An exploration of the position of religion in American legal and social theory, with particular focus on jurisprudence under the First Amendment. 
4705:Permission of the instructor. An introduction to the diversity of African American beliefs, experiences, and expressions from the colonial era to the present. Exploration will be both historical and thematic. 
4706:Examines the major religious groups that operate in the state of Israel and influence its social and cultural development; analyzes the relationship among religion, state, and society in Israel. 
4707:This course is an introduction to Black Atlantic discourses from ethnographic and religious studies perspectives. Readings will privilege African-inspired performance and aesthetic forms as these are produced in religious practice. 
4708:This course is an introduction to Black Atlantic discourses from ethnographic and religious studies perspectives. Readings will privilege African-inspired performance and aesthetic forms as these are produced in religious practice. 
4709:This course introduces students to the anthropology of Christianity. Students will explore major themes of interest in the field. This course aims to familiarize students with the diversity of Christian religious experience and expression globally and to explore the mechanisms through which that diversity takes shape in various cultural contexts. 
4710:In certain eras, Mary has been more central to Catholic devotion than Christ. This course explores doctrine, liturgy, and popular devotion centering on the Virgin in medieval European Christianity, her impact on colonial religion in the New World, and her roles in Protestantism, Eastern Orthodoxy, and Islam. 
4711:In certain eras, Mary has been more central to Catholic devotion than Christ. This course explores doctrine, liturgy, and popular devotion centering on the Virgin in medieval European Christianity, her impact on colonial religion in the New World, and her roles in Protestantism, Eastern Orthodoxy, and Islam. 
4712:Permission of the instructor. An investigation of one writer or school in the history of Christian theology as an example of typical methods, positions, and problems within the tradition. 
4713:Permission of the instructor. Restricted to students with a reading knowledge of Latin. Readings in one or two major texts in Latin that permit close study of several issues in the development of Christian life and thought during the Middle Ages. 
4714:This course examines creative expression at the service of religious belief from 1000 to 1700. Poetry, drama, art, architecture, and music will be the texts to understand the religious culture of this rich period. for students lacking the prerequisites. 
4715:An investigation of the forms, characteristics, and variety of the mystical experiences of women. 
4716:This course examines the archaeological context of Greek religion, cults, and associated rituals from the Bronze Age until the Hellenistic period with emphasis on urban, rural, and panhellenic sanctuaries, and methods of approaching ancient religion and analyzing cult practices. 
4717:Exploration of the major religious traditions of South Asia. Focuses on the beliefs and practices associated with different traditions, and the ways that these relate to one another and to broader political, historical, and cultural formations. Also addresses questions of modernization, reform, communal violence, and other transformations of religious life. 
4718:Centered on the story of the Hindu god Rama, this course explores Valmiki's Ramayana, alternate versions of the story, its performance in theater, and its role in politics. Students will work outside of class to perform in a theatrical event called Ramlila, open to the public. Students may not receive credit for both ASIA 332 and ASIA 382. 
4719:This course offers an introduction to the Sanskrit Mahabharata as well as modern retellings of the epic in contemporary literature, film, and theater of India. Students will work outside to class to stage a modern play based on the Mahabharata, open to the public. Students may not receive credit for both ASIA 333 and ASIA 383. 
4720:How does globalization affect religious life? How do historical, cultural, and religious traditions mediate the experience of globalization in particular locales? This course analyzes the forces and practices associated with political-economic and cultural globalization in Southeast Asia and explores the religious transformations and innovations that these processes have inspired. 
4721:This course introduces students to the multifaceted ways in which Muslims in the modern and contemporary periods have approached, experienced, and interpreted the Qur'an, including discussions of accessibility, hermeneutical methods, and exegetical themes. 
4722:Permission of the instructor. Subject matter will vary with instructor but will always be focused on a particular problem or issue. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
4723:The first part of a two-semester introduction to the grammar of biblical Hebrew. 
4724:The second part of a two-semester introduction to the grammar of biblical Hebrew. students lacking the prerequisite. 
4725:A consolidation of the fundamentals of classical Hebrew grammar via readings of biblical texts of various genres (including both prose and poetry). students lacking the prerequisite. 
4726:Further readings of classical Hebrew texts, focusing on biblical poetry as well as early postbiblical material (e.g., nonbiblical texts from Qumran, Mishnah/Tosefta). students lacking the prerequisite. 
4727:students lacking the prerequisite. 
4728:Reading texts in rabbinic Hebrew or in biblical and/or talmudic Aramaic, with appropriate grammatical instruction. for students lacking the prerequisites. 
4729:Readings in literary, epistolary, and juridical texts. 
4730:Readings in the alphabetic texts of Ras Shamra and a study of the elements of Ugaritic grammar. 
4731:Coptic, the last stage of Egyptian, a living language in the Roman and Byzantine period. Thorough grounding in the grammar of the Sahidic dialect as a basis for reading biblical monastic and Gnostic texts. 
4732:An introduction to the grammar of Classical Syriac for the purpose of reading Syriac Christian texts from late antiquity. Knowledge of another Semitic language (e.g., Hebrew, Arabic) would be an asset but is not required. 
4733:This course examines the challenges posed to ethics and theology by the Holocaust. We will address philosophical and moral issues such as the problem of evil, divine omniscience, omnipotence, suffering, theodicy, representation, testimony, and an ethics of memory. 
4734:This course explores the complex relation between religion and science in the modern world. Public disputes over teaching evolution in American schools serve as a central case study of this. 
4735:A theoretical inquiry into ethnicity, race, and religion as constituents of personal and communal identity. Emphasis on global migrations, colonial and postcolonial relations, diasporic communities, and issues of religious pluralism. students lacking the prerequisite. 
4736:An examination of contemporary gender theory, with particular focus on its application to the study of religion. 
4737:A critical exploration of the concept of religious experience as defined by such authors as William James and Sigmund Freud. 
4738:This course examines philosophical interpretations of the attempted sacrifice by Abraham of his beloved son, offering a comparative approach. The incident in Genesis is remarkably succinct for its controversial subject matter. We will compare this event with representations in Greek drama, the New Testament, and the Qur'an. 
4739:This course examines philosophical interpretations of the attempted sacrifice by Abraham of his beloved son, offering a comparative approach. The incident in Genesis is remarkably succinct for its controversial subject matter. We will compare this event with representations in Greek drama, the New Testament, and the Qur'an. 
4740:This course explores the phenomenon of spirit possession and introduces students to various theoretical and methodological approaches to its academic study. In addition to critically engaging with accounts of spirit possession from around the world, students will explore various related themes of gender, power, and religious and cultural change. 
4741:Religion studied anthropologically as a cultural, social, and psychological phenomenon in the works of classical and contemporary social thought. 
4742:Religion studied anthropologically as a cultural, social, and psychological phenomenon in the works of classical and contemporary social thought. 
4743:Sociological analysis of group beliefs and practices, both traditionally religious and secular, through which fundamental life experiences are given coherence and meaning. 
4744:A seminar on concepts of nature within religions and a variety of world-wide spiritual traditions. Emphasis on sacred space, place, and pilgrimage as a vital intersection of religion and nature. 
4745:A seminar on concepts of nature within religions and a variety of world-wide spiritual traditions. Emphasis on sacred space, place, and pilgrimage as a vital intersection of religion and nature. 
4746:This course examines religion in America from precontact to the Civil War. We will chart the development of religious life, thought, and practice in North America, concentrating on areas later incorporated into the United States, but maintaining broad interest in other Americas. 
4747:This course examines religion in America from precontact to the Civil War. We will chart the development of religious life, thought, and practice in North America, concentrating on areas later incorporated into the United States, but maintaining broad interest in other Americas. 
4748:An examination of primary sources in the history of American religion since the Civil War. 
4749:Juniors or seniors only. Examination of evangelicalism and its role in American society, politics, and culture. Exploration of its various subdivisions and its relation to such movements as fundamentalism, pentecostalism, revivalism, and premillennialism. 
4750:Juniors or seniors only. Examination of evangelicalism and its role in American society, politics, and culture. Exploration of its various subdivisions and its relation to such movements as fundamentalism, pentecostalism, revivalism, and premillennialism. 
4751:The seminar examines the developments in gender roles and in sexuality in contemporary Judaism. 
4752:A study of intercultural interaction and interreligious encounter focusing on Asian religions in America, 1784 to the present. 
4753:An exploration of the varied and complex relationships which have developed between Christianity and Judaism, from the first century to the 21st century. 
4754:This course examines diverse indigenous engagements with Christianity from earliest contacts to the present. Topics range from missionary contestations in colonial Mexico to the fight for religious freedom in 20th- century United States, from historical revitalization movements like the Ghost Dance to contemporary indigenous theologies in North and South America. 
4755:This course deals with various topics related to sexuality and marriage in Jewish tradition and history: sex outside of marriage, wedding ceremonies, regulations of marital sex, menstruation, homosexuality, and more. 
4756:Examines a movement of religious reform that shattered Latin Christendom and contributed many of the conditions of early modern Europe. Emphases: religious, political, social. 
4757:In medieval Jewish Kabbalah, Christian mysticism, and Islamic Sufism, devotees attempt to express direct experiences of an infinite God. This course examines theories of mystical language, particularly the negation of language, the turn to the visual and the body, and the tension between communal and individual expressions of the divine. 
4758:Stresses the diversity of modern Islamic experience by examining the works of various Muslim authors. Genres may include travelogues, memoirs, novels, sermons, and treatises, among others. 
4759:An exploration of explosive combinations of religion and politics in the Iranian revolution, the Palestinian movement, Hindu nationalism in India, and Christian fundamentalism in America. 
4760:This course approaches constructions of gender and sexuality in Muslim societies in diverse historical and geographical contexts. It focuses on changing interpretations of gender roles and sexual norms. Themes include gender in Islamic law, sexual ethics, masculinity, homosexuality, marriage, and dress. 
4761:This course explores the role that mountains and pilgrimage have played in Japanese cosmology and how they relate to methodology of studying place and space. 
4762:This course discusses the development of Shinto in Japanese history and covers themes such as myths, syncretism, sacred sites, iconography, nativism, religion and the state, and historiography. 
4763:Permission of the instructor. This course examines the cultural construction of animals in Japanese myth, folklore, and religion. 
4764:This course will examine how the modern historical-critical enterprise of biblical scholarship arose, out of what historical circumstances, for what purposes, and to what effect. What are its major aspects? How does it relate to other forms of academic and theological inquiry? How has this enterprise fared in recent times? 
4765:An examination of Babylonian, Canaanite, Egyptian, Hittite, and Sumerian texts from the prebiblical era, focusing on representative myths, epics, sagas, songs, proverbs, prophecies, and hymns. 
4766:An examination of Babylonian, Canaanite, Egyptian, Hittite, and Sumerian texts from the prebiblical era, focusing on representative myths, epics, sagas, songs, proverbs, prophecies, and hymns. 
4767:A comprehensive introduction to the Dead Sea Scrolls and the different Jewish groups connected with them. 
4768:This course will examine a major corpus of the Hebrew Bible with attention to the full range of historical-critical issues. Attention will be paid as well to early forms of biblical interpretation and their use in the religious life of subsequent communities. 
4769:Permission of the instructor. An exploration of influential 19th-century critiques of religion, including texts by such thinkers as Feuerbach, Marx, Kierkegaard, Nietzsche, Stanton, Douglass, and Freud. 
4770:Critical exploration of exemplary contemporary ethnographies of religion focusing on the ways that ethnographic methods and writing styles shape knowledge of religious and cultural life in various traditions and parts of the world. Topics considered include field work, culture, ethics, and the challenges of interpreting and representing religious experience. 
4771:Seminar topic varies. 
4772:This course explores the myriad and complex issues related to the function of metaphor and symbol in religious language. 
4773:An examination of ritual, allegory, and symbol as modes of religious expression in cultic and literary contexts. 
4774:This seminar explores the historical development of "religion" as a concept and object of academic scholarship through the critical study of key texts and foundational debates about religion in Western thought. 
4775:Seniors or graduate students only. Examination of religious-ethical dimensions of such issues as the dying patient, organ transplants, abortion, prolongation of life, and experimentation on human beings, drawing on theory from the traditional Western religions and the social sciences. 
4776:Exploration of the history, beliefs, and practices of Mormons. Will include visits to Latter-Day Saints services, guest speakers, and discussion of race and gender in the contemporary church. students lacking the prerequisite. 
4777:The course will examine the evangelical tradition from a global perspective, exploring the tradition from its early rise in Europe to its impact on the Americas, Africa, and Asia. 
4778:The course will examine the evangelical tradition from a global perspective, exploring the tradition from its early rise in Europe to its impact on the Americas, Africa, and Asia. 
4779:The course examines the interaction between the values and messages of the counterculture and religious groups, ideas, and practices during the Vietnam War era. It also investigates the impact of countercultural norms and styles on the current American religious scene. 
4780:This course explores the Jewish interpretation of the Bible, focusing on important commentaries from influential medieval Ashkenazi and Sephardic thinkers. 
4781:This course explores many aspects of the Halakhah, the Jewish traditional legal system, focusing on issues such as rituals, holidays, religious obligations and prohibitions, and laws regulating sexual activity. 
4782:This seminar explores the topic of intimate relations between people who consider themselves, or are considered by others, to be part of different religious groups. We will explore cases in which such relations achieve the social sanction of marriage and cases in which the relations are of a more temporary nature. 
4783:Explores the indigenous Chinese sciences and the cosmological ideas that informed them. Topics include astronomy, divination, medicine, fengshui, and political and literary theory. Chinese sources in translation are emphasized. 
4784:An historical examination of African American Islam in the United States. Explores the intellectual, cultural, social, and political roots of black Islam in addition to its diverse doctrinal, ritual, and institutional manifestations. 
4785:Permission of the instructor. A survey of Islamic mysticism, its sources in the Qur'an and the Prophet Muhammad, and its literary, cultural, and social deployment in Arab, Persian, Indic, and Turkish regions. 
4786:A survey of the formation of Islamic traditions in the subcontinent from the eighth century to the present, with emphasis on religion and politics, the role of Sufism, types of popular religion, and questions of Islamic identity. 
4787:Iran from the rise of the Safavid empire to the Islamic Republic. Topics include Shi'ism, politics, intellectual and sectarian movements, encounters with colonialism, art and architecture, music, literature. 
4788:A nontheological approach to the Qur'an as a literary text, emphasizing its history, form, style, and interpretation. 
4789:This course will cover the history of Turkey from the Byzantine period until contemporary times. Key aspects of Turkish culture (architecture, music, poetry to arts) will be covered. 
4790:This seminar explores the roles of women in the religions of Japan (including Buddhism, Shinto, folk religions, pilgrimage, new religions movements, and new spirituality culture) from goddesses, shamans, nuns, and pilgrims to demons, temptresses, and lesser human beings. The course traces these themes across Japanese socioeconomic and religious history. 
4791:Permission of the instructor. Subject matter will vary with instructor but will always be focused on a particular problem or issue. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
4792:Historical causes of violence between Hindus and Muslims in modern India. Short stories, poetry, and novels in translation are used to explore how conflicts over religious sites, religious conversion, image worship, and language contributed to a sense of conflicting religious identity. 
4793:The course traces the past and continued canonical processes that define what the Hebrew Bible/Old Testament has been and is today, with a focus on the history of biblical interpretation. 
4794:This course explores the translation of the Hebrew Bible in the West, with a view toward identifying religious and ideological trends. 
4795:of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisite. 
4796:of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisite. 
4797:Ideas concerning the Messiah and the end of the world held by Jews, Christians, and Muslims. Emphasis on the beginning of the Christian era. 
4798:Reading of the Apostolic Fathers. Students must have completed two courses in New Testament/Early Christianity and two years of Greek. 
4799:Examinations of practices and discourses pertaining to death and the afterlife in the ancient civilizations of Near East, Greece, and Rome. 
4800:This advanced seminar is for undergraduate and graduate students who have at least a basic knowledge about Catholicism. The range of topics to be discussed is open and will depend on students' interests and suggestions. 
4801:Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Medieval Christians consistently focused on the suffering body as a means of reflecting on Christ's sacrifice. This course considers how medical theories of cognition, gender, and pain influenced the potential role of the body in medieval mystical experience. 
4802:Permission of the instructor. Study of selected religious, literary, and historical texts in Arabic, Persian, or Urdu. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
4803:Permission of the instructor. Exercises (including field work) in learning to read the primary modes of public action in religious traditions, e.g., sermons, testimonies, rituals, and prayers. 
4804:Permission of the director of undergraduate studies. Required of all students reading for honors in religious studies. 
4805:Permission of the director of undergraduate studies. Required of all students reading for honors in religious studies. 
4806:Advanced undergraduate or graduate standing and permission of the instructor. Subject matter should be arranged with a specific instructor. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
4807:Majors only. Concentrating on a different theme each year, this departmental seminar introduces the different areas and approaches in religious studies. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
4808:This course seeks to explore the historically difficult position of minorities in the modern world, using the situation of Jews in Germany from the 18th century to the Holocaust as a case study. 
4809:The course explores selected themes and case studies pertinent to culture and society in modern Israel, with emphasis on debates about "Israeliness" in various cultural and social arenas. 
4810:An introduction to the broad scope of Jewish history, culture, and identity, from biblical times to the 21st century and from the Middle East to the New World. 
4811:Introduces the essential elements of modern Hebrew structure and vocabulary and aspects of modern Israeli culture. Aural comprehension, reading, speaking, and writing are stressed. 
4812:Continued instruction in the essential elements of modern Hebrew structure and vocabulary and aspects of modern Israeli culture. Aural comprehension, reading, speaking, and writing are stressed. 
4813:This course introduces students to the various books of the Hebrew Bible and to the history and culture of ancient Israel, focusing on the formation of national identity, ancient conceptualizations of divinity, ritual practice, and modes of social regulation, all of which are set against the background of the ancient Near East. 
4814:This course surveys Jewish history and religion during the Second Temple and Rabbinic periods, from the destruction of the First Jewish Temple (Solomon's Temple) in 586 BCE to the Muslim conquest of Palestine (640 CE). 
4815:The course offers a comprehensive understanding of the development of Judaism from the late Middle Ages to contemporary times. 
4816:This course surveys the archaeology of Palestine (modern Israel and Jordan) from the Persian period (ca. 586 BCE) to the Muslim conquest (640 CE). 
4817:An examination of Judaism in its two major centers, demonstrating how different social and cultural environments shape very different interpretations and practices of the Jewish tradition. 
4818:This class surveys the history of the Jews from ancient to modern times. It focuses on the development of Jewish religion, culture identity, and politics in Jewish communities in the Western, Atlantic and Middle Eastern Worlds. It also explores the development of antisemitism and anti-Jewish violence. 
4819:Second-year instruction in the essential elements of modern Hebrew structure and vocabulary and aspects of modern Israeli culture. Aural comprehension, reading, speaking, and writing are stressed. An introduction to representative literary works is included. 
4820:Continued instruction in the essential elements of modern Hebrew structure and vocabulary and aspects of modern Israeli culture. Aural comprehension, reading, speaking, and writing are stressed. An introduction to representative literary works is included. 
4821:An examination of prophecy and divination in the Israelite-Jewish traditions and in their environments, including an analysis of the major biblical prophets. 
4822:An introduction to the culture and history of ancient Israel through an exploration of the language of the Hebrew Bible. Students will learn the essentials for basic engagement with biblical Hebrew, then consider what this linguistic evidence reveals about the historical and cultural background of the Hebrew Bible. 
4823:This course explores the linguistic background of the Hebrew Bible, giving special attention to the literary aspect of biblical interpretation. Specific topics include the forms of the Hebrew verb, prose and poetic genres in the Hebrew Bible, wordplay and repetition, narration and dialogue. 
4824:This course examines how contemporary thinkers have considered philosophy, ethics, and theology from a Jewish perspective. Methodological points of inquiry include: the role of interpretation in Judaism, revelation and redemption, authority and tradition, pluralism and inclusion, suffering and evil, gender and Jewish philosophy, and 20th- century approaches to God. 
4825:This seminar covers popular and pious literature written by and for Jews in the 15th to 18th century in German-speaking countries. Originally written in Old Yiddish, this literature preserved the popular European genres and nonfiction accounts of Jewish community and family life. 
4826:The course explores major periods and trends in Israeli cinema. Focus is given to issues pertaining to gender, ethnicity, and the construction of national identity. 
4827:A study of the role of Jews and the "Jewish question" in German culture from 1750 to the Holocaust and beyond. Discussions and texts (literary, political, theological) in English. 
4828:Course examines the history and culture of Jewish women in America from their arrival in New Amsterdam in 1654 to the present and explores how gender shaped this journey. 
4829:Anti-Semitism; the Jews of Europe; the Hitler dictatorship; evolution of Nazi Jewish policy from persecution to the Final Solution; Jewish response; collaborators, bystanders, and rescuers; aftermath. 
4830:Through readings in a wide range of genres, this course will examine major factors and influences shaping Jewish American literature and culture in the 20th century. 
4831:Third year of instruction in modern Hebrew with an emphasis on Israeli culture, literature, and media. 
4832:Third year of instruction in modern Hebrew with an emphasis on Israeli culture, literature, and media. 
4833:The Renaissance (1300-1600) is known as a time of great artistic, scientific, and political renewal. But did Jews, the only religious minority in Europe, get an opportunity to benefit from and participate in that progress? This class studies the history of the Jews at a time of great cultural change. 
4834:The migration of Jewish populations from small towns to large cities in Eastern Europe altered notions of Jewish community, space, cultures, and identities. This course will explore the roles of ghetto and shtetl in both history and memory of the Jewish past, drawing on memoirs, literature, film, and photography. 
4835:This class will study the history of the claim that the Jews are responsible for Christ's death. Students will examine the power of this idea to travel through time and space and discuss how it is portrayed differently and with different purposes throughout history. 
4836:This class will study the history of the claim that the Jews are responsible for Christ's death. Students will examine the power of this idea to travel through time and space and discuss how it is portrayed differently and with different purposes throughout history. 
4837:Examines the major religious groups that operate in the state of Israel and influence its social and cultural development; analyzes the relationship among religion, state, and society in Israel. 
4838:This course is designed to examine Jewish life in Arab lands in the last century by examining culture, language, and the communal life that the Arab-Jews shared with their neighbors. 
4839:This course will investigate, through literature, film, and song, the encounter of Eastern European Jews and their descendants with Anglo- Protestant America over four generations. 
4840:A survey of the major works of 20th-century Polish literature and culture in English translation. Some readings in Polish for students who can use the language. 
4841:This course examines the challenges posed to ethics and theology by the Holocaust. We will address philosophical and moral issues such as the problem of evil, divine omniscience, omnipotence, suffering, theodicy, representation, testimony, and an ethics of memory. 
4842:Focuses on the various collaborations, exchanges, and mutual enrichment between Israelis and Palestinians in the realm of culture, particularly literature and cinema. These connections include language (Israeli Jewish authors writing in Arabic and Palestinian writers who choose Hebrew as their language of expression), collaborating in filmmaking, and joint educational initiatives. 
4843:Employing Zionist and post- and anti-Zionist documents, treatises, and mostly literary and cinematic texts, this class will focus on the relations between language, Jewish-Israeli identity, and the notion of homeland. 
4844:The seminar examines the developments in gender roles and in sexuality in contemporary Judaism. 
4845:The largest and most prosperous Jewry of Europe lived in medieval Spain. The 1492 expulsion, driven by the Inquisition and Catholic monarchy, not only ended Spanish Jewish life but also forced a traumatic redefinition of Jewish identity. This course focuses on the causes and consequences of the expulsion of 1492. 
4846:Explores the fictional representation of Jewish life in Russia and Poland by Russian, Polish, and Jewish authors from the 19th century to the present. Taught in English; some foreign language readings for qualified students. 
4847:Literary representation in fiction, poetry, memoirs, and other genres of the mass annihilation and terror in Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union under the Nazi and Communist regimes. Taught in English; some foreign language readings for qualified students. 
4848:Fictional and autobiographical expressions of the Slavic and East European immigrant experience in the 20th century. Readings include Russian, Polish, Jewish, and Czech authors from early 1900s to present. Taught in English; some foreign language readings for qualified students. 
4849:The history of modern Eastern, East Central, and southeastern Europe has been shaped by the ethnic and religious diversity of the regions. This course examines experiences in the Russian, Habsburg, and Ottoman Empires and their successor states from the 19th century to the present day. 
4850:Eastern Europe was one of the largest centers of Jewish civilization from premodern times to the Second World War, giving rise to important religious, cultural, and political developments in Jewish modernity. This course examines main developments of Jewish society from the late 18th century until the aftermath of the Holocaust. 
4851:This course explores ethnicity in the South and focuses on the history and culture of Jewish Southerners from their arrival in the Carolinas in the 17th century to the present day. 
4852:A comprehensive introduction to the Dead Sea Scrolls and the different Jewish groups connected with them. 
4853:This is a course on ancient synagogues in Palestine and the Diaspora from the Second Temple period to the seventh century CE. students lacking the prerequisite. 
4854:Required of majors in religious studies with a concentration in Jewish studies; graduate students may enroll. Concentrating on a different theme each year, the course offers intensive grounding in key areas of and approaches to Jewish studies. Combines exploration of broad topics with scholarly rigor and specificity. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
4855:Introduction to Catalan language and culture. Designed for students who already have proficiency in another foreign language. 
4856:Continuation of Catalan 401 with more emphasis on reading authentic texts. 
4857:Introduces the essential elements of French structure and vocabulary and aspects of French and francophone culture. Aural comprehension, speaking, reading, and writing. Students may not receive credit for both FREN 101 and FREN 111. 
4858:Continues the study of essential elements of French structure, vocabulary, and aspects of French and francophone culture. Aural comprehension, speaking, reading, and writing. Students may not receive credit for both FREN 102 and FREN 105, 111, or 401. 
4859:Continues study of essential elements of French structure, vocabulary, and aspects of French and francophone culture. Aural comprehension, speaking, reading, and writing are stressed in that order. Students may not receive credit for both FREN 102 and FREN 105, 111, or 401. 
4860:Accelerated course that covers FREN 101 and 102 for students with previous study of French. Aural comprehension, speaking, reading, and writing. Students may not receive credit for both FREN 105 and FREN 102 or 401. 
4861:Permission of the instructor. Covers the material of the FREN 101 and 102 sequence in a single semester. Students may not receive credit for both FREN 111 and FREN 101, 102, or 105. 
4862:Develops language skills for communication. Review of elementary French with increasing emphasis on reading and writing in the context of contemporary French and francophone culture. Students may not receive credit for both FREN 203 and 212 or 402. 
4863:Develops language skills for communication. Review of elementary French with increasing emphasis on reading and writing in the context of contemporary French and francophone culture. Students may not receive credit for both FREN 203 and 212 or 402. 
4864:Continued development of language skills for communication through reading and discussion of literary and cultural texts. Emphasis on accurate grammar in written and oral expression. Students may not receive credit for both FREN 204 and 212 or 402. 
4865:Continued development of language skills for communication through reading and discussion of literary and cultural texts. Emphasis on accurate grammar in written and oral expression. Students may not receive credit for both FREN 204 and 212 or 402. 
4866:A continuation of FREN 111; covers the material of FREN 203 and 204 in one semester. Students may not receive credit for both FREN 212 and FREN 203 or 204. 
4867:Emphasis on further development and refinement of speaking, listening, reading, and writing, including a review of grammar. Study of literary and cultural texts. 
4868:Introductory conversation for building oral proficiency while increasing awareness of French culture. Emphasis on vocabulary and grammatical accuracy; writing activities support speaking. 
4869:Skills for further literary studies through French poetry, theater, and prose from Renaissance to the present. Lectures, discussions, and written assignments. 
4870:Skills for further literary studies through French poetry, theater, and prose from Renaissance to the present. Lectures, discussions, and written assignments. 
4871:Texts in translation and sub-titled films from the Renaissance through the present day that involve representations of the Americas from French and francophone perspectives. 
4872:Exploration of questions related to sex and gender during the French Revolution and their reflection in literature, philosophy, and art. 
4873:Exploration of French food culture in film, literature, and historical texts, examining gastronomy in relation to national and individual identity, immigration, cultural specificity, tradition and innovation, markets, sociability, and excess and lack. Conducted in English; students may do written work in French for major or minor credit. 
4874:Recommended preparation, FREN 250, 255, or 260. Intensive grammar review and composition to improve accuracy and develop writing skills, using process and task-oriented approaches. 
4875:Coregistration in a specified LAC course required. Promotes foreign language proficiency across the curriculum. May not count toward the major or minor in French. for students lacking the prerequisite. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
4876:Intermediate conversation to expand speaking skills through vocabulary building, discussion of selected texts, and activities that produce conversation. Ongoing development of writing skills. Students may not receive credit for both FREN 310 and FREN 311. 
4877:This course is designed to help students improve the quality of their French oral and written expression as an integral part of their immersion experience in France. The expansion of active vocabulary is a primary objective of the course. Open only to students in Montpellier, France. Students may not receive credit for both FREN 310 and FREN 311. 
4878:Open only to students in Montpellier, France. Introduction to French literature through the study of a selection of representative texts. Prepares students for the academics required at a French university. Students will also gain knowledge and experience of the intellectual culture and educational organization of France. 
4879:Examines how French-language plays and films explore questions of identity through stories of imposture, disguise, cross-dressing, and mistaken identity. Authors studied include Molière, Marivaux, De la Chenelière, and others. In French. permission of the instructor for students lacking the requisite. 
4880:Practice of vocabulary and discourse strategies pertinent to business- related activity in French. Readings and discussions emphasize cultural awareness for interaction in cross-cultural settings. 
4881:Recommended preparation, FREN 260 and 300. This course explores the depiction of crime in literature: from medieval tricksters and classical tyrants to romantic crimes of passion; from the destruction of social and ethical codes to the global victims of (civil) war. In French. 
4882:A study of important aspects of French civilization (descriptive geography and cultural, social, political, and art history highlights) from its beginning to Louis XIV. 
4883:A study of important aspects of French civilization (cultural, social, political, and art history highlights) from the eve of the French Revolution to the present time. 
4884:Focuses on the construction of cultural identities in French films within a European context from the 1980s until today. 
4885:Oral communication and composition on contemporary topics in French and francophone cultures. Study of cultural texts, articles from the French press, and video documents. 
4886:A survey of major authors and the genres they represent in French literature of the Middle Ages and Renaissance. 
4887:A survey of major authors and the genres they represent in French literature of the 17th and 18th centuries. 
4888:A survey of major authors and the genres they represent in French literature of the 19th and 20th centuries. 
4889:Critical viewing of films of the major directors of the French New Wave of the 1950s through the 1970s, including Jean-Luc Godard, François Truffaut, and Eric Rohmer. Examination of earlier films that inform these directors. The impact of the New Wave on global cinema. 
4890:A survey of major authors and the genres they represent in French literature in the 20th and 21st centuries. This course focuses on the major transformations in form, themes, genres and connections between other media and disciplines in France in the 20th- and 21st-century novel. 
4891:Readings in francophone literatures from literary and cultural perspectives. Areas of study may vary (African, Canadian, European, etc.). 
4892:The evolution of identity and nationhood in Québécois literature from the 1960s to the present. Includes the study of francophone literature of immigration in Québec. 
4893:How wars, women's movements, immigration, and globalization have influenced the notion of Frenchness. 
4894:Interdisciplinary studies of France's role in the construction of European identity. 
4895:Possible topics include cinema, transnational francophone literatures, gender studies. In English. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
4896:French-language theater. Specific topics to be announced in advance by the instructor. 
4897:Specific topics to be announced in advance by the instructor. 
4898:Specific selections announced in advance by the instructor. 
4899:Examines the cultural encounters between France and Vietnam and China, the socio-historical context of French colonialism in Vietnam, and the literary and cultural production to which it gave rise. 
4900:Recommended preparation, CMPL143. Study of French cinema from 1895 through 1950, including early French film, silent cinema, surrealism, poetic realism, and postwar cinema. Concepts and vocabulary for film criticism. 
4901:Recommended preparation, CMPL143. Study of French cinema from 1950 to the present, including postwar cinema, the New Wave, and the French film industry in the age of globalization. Concepts and vocabulary for film criticism. 
4902:Examines selected topics in French and francophone studies. Content varies by semester and instructor. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
4903:Required preparation, two major-level courses or permission of the instructor. Research project on topic agreed upon by the student and faculty member. Includes bibliographic work and research approaches. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
4904:For students with proven competence in another foreign language. Covers first-year material in one semester; emphasis on speaking and grammar. May not be used to satisfy the Foundations foreign language requirement. Students may not receive credit for both FREN 401 and FREN 101, 102, or 105. 
4905:Covers second-year material in one semester. Develops skills, with increasing emphasis on reading and writing. Prepares for more advanced courses. May not be used to satisfy the Foundations foreign language requirement. Students may not receive credit for both FREN 402 and FREN 203 or FREN 204. 
4906:Review of advanced grammar. Exercises in translation from English into French of literary and critical materials. Free composition and training in the use of stylistic devices. 
4907:An introductory course designed to enable students to read medieval texts with rapidity and accuracy. Phonology, morphology, semantics, and syntax. 
4908:A study of structuralist and poststructuralist methods in poetics, semiotics, psychoanalysis, sociology, and philosophy. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
4909:This class will follow Muslim women's experiences and changing roles in France and the United States from the 1970s through today. 
4910:Intensive study of a single major author of the romantic or postromantic period. The subject changes from year to year among writers in the different literary genres. 
4911:Examines selected topics in French and francophone studies. Content varies by semester and instructor. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
4912:Provides training in research methodology either for a B.A. honors or M.A. thesis topic related to contemporary European studies. Students will learn to conceptualize an original research project and to identify and assess the current intellectual debates in their chosen areas of research. 
4913:This course examines the limits of universalism in today's "multicultural" France and how the European Union will affect French universalism and French resistance to identity politics. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
4914:Study of the production of films from francophone sub-Saharan and North African communities. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
4915:Studies of a single author, a literary movement, or an aesthetic movement from the avant-garde to postmodernism. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
4916:Required preparation, FREN 300 and one additional course above FREN 300, or permission of the instructor. Exploration of the interaction between technology and sociability in 19th- through 21st-century French literature, with an emphasis on questions of modernization, industrialization, colonization, globalization, subjectivity, and ethics. Taught in French. 
4917:Readings in a variety of medieval texts in light of contemporary literary theory. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
4918:Theory, literary texts, films, and cultural phenomena associated with postmodernism and the interaction of art, philosophy, film, literature, and popular culture. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
4919:Explores early modern literary representations of the Mediterranean as a space of cross-cultural encounter, exchange, rivalry, and negotiation. 
4920:Focus on contemporary fictions and films, and the writing of history from both the French (French-Algerian or "Pieds noirs," French draftees) and the Algerian sides. the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
4921:Interdisciplinary seminar on a cultural topic or a theme through readings in literary and nonliterary texts. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
4922:Recommended preparation, FREN 370, one course from ENGL 225-229, or one course from CMPL 120-124. Study of French-English literary relations in the Renaissance, focusing on literary adaptation and appropriation, poetics, political writing, and related areas. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
4923:The phonology, morphology, and syntax of French are traced from the Latin foundation to the present. Lectures, readings, discussions, and textual analysis. the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
4924:The study of sounds as system in modern standard French. Lecture, discussion, laboratory practice in practical phonetics according to individual needs. students lacking the prerequisite. 
4925:Introduction to phonology, morphology, and syntax of modern standard French. Application of modern linguistic theory to the teaching of French. the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
4926:Evolution of francophone literature from a literary and cultural perspective (Maghreb, Africa, Caribbean Islands, and Canada). Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
4927:An examination of national and transnational identity within European culture and recent economic and ethnologic changes in Western Europe and France. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
4928:Intensive study of a major 18th-century writer. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
4929:Examines selected topics in French and francophone studies. Content varies by semester and instructor. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
4930:French language for reading. For students with no background in French or those needing a review of grammatical structures and vocabulary in preparation for the reading knowledge exam for graduate degrees (FLPA). 
4931:Evolution of the novel in France up to the nineties. 
4932:This course focuses on the representation of identities in Franco-Arab contexts and in various artistic productions (fiction, photography, paintings, comics, films, etc.), with a special focus on Algeria, Tunisia, France, Lebanon, and Québec. 
4933:Major currents in French Renaissance poetry: the Rhétoriqueurs, the break with the Middle Ages, Italian influences, the formation of the French Renaissance sonnet, poetry and gender, poetry and politics, the Pléïade. Clément Marot, Maurice Scève, Louise Labé, Olivier de Magny, Pierre de Ronsard, Joachim Du Bellay. Taught in French. 
4934:In-depth study of a particular aspect of 17th-century literature and culture. Possible topics are the court and its elsewhere, Frenchness and foreignness in the 17th century, theater and theatricality, enchantment and disenchantment. the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
4935:This seminar examines 17th- and 18th-century French literature in relation to the intellectual, social, and political movements of the Enlightenment. See department announcements for current topic and reading list. In French. Primarily for graduate students; advanced undergraduates may enroll with permission of the instructor. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
4936:Evolution of identity and nationhood in Québécois literature from the 1960s to the present, including the study of the literature of immigration (diasporic or littrature migrante). Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
4937:Examines selected topics in French and francophone studies. Content varies by semester and instructor. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
4938:Required of students reading for honors. Preparation of an essay under the direction of a member of the faculty. Topic to be approved by thesis director in consultation with honors advisor. 
4939:Restricted to senior honors candidates. Second semester of senior honors thesis. Thesis preparation under the direction of a departmental faculty member. 
4940:Introduces the essential elements of Italian structure and vocabulary and aspects of Italian culture. Aural comprehension, speaking, reading, and writing are stressed in that order. Students may not receive credit for both ITAL 101 and ITAL 401. 
4941:Continues study of essential elements of Italian structures, vocabulary, and aspects of Italian culture. Aural comprehension, speaking, reading, and writing are stressed in that order. Students may not receive credit for both ITAL 102 and ITAL 401. 
4942:Develops language skills for communication. Reviews and expands grammar of elementary Italian with increasing emphasis on reading and writing in the context of Italian culture. Students may not receive credit for both ITAL 203 and ITAL 402. 
4943:Continued development of language skills for oral and written communication through reading and discussion of literature and expository texts. Further study of grammar. Students may not receive credit for both ITAL 204 and ITAL 402. 
4944:A reading of Dante's Divine Comedy. 
4945:A study of the major authors of the Italian Renaissance, with special attention to Petrarch, Boccaccio, Machiavelli, Castiglione, Ariosto, and Tasso. 
4946:A study of the major prose writers of modern Italian literature, with special attention given to Manzoni, Verga, Pirandello, Svevo, Moravia, Lampedusa, and other contemporary novelists. 
4947:An introduction to Italian fascism through history, literature, and film. A look at different forms of culture under fascism and how fascist culture has been remembered after its fall. 
4948:This course focuses on the history of modern Italy and examines changes in political, social, economic structures. Students will engage in the search for an "Italian identity." Topics will include unification, World War I and II, Italian fascism, the postwar Italian Republic, the Mafia, terrorism, popular culture, and Silvio Berlusconi. 
4949:Intensive grammar review and composition designed to improve accuracy and develop writing skills, using process and task-oriented approaches. 
4950:Coregistration in a specified LAC course required. A recitation section for selected courses that promote the use of foreign language proficiency across the curriculum (LAC). May not count toward the major or minor in Italian. students lacking the prerequisite. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
4951:Designed to expand speaking skills through vocabulary building, discussion of selected texts, and activities that produce conversation. Ongoing development of writing skills. 
4952:Study of the importance of Italian civilization from its beginnings to the present. Areas examined include history, art history, music, and literature. students lacking the prerequisite. 
4953:A multidisciplinary examination of postunification Italian culture conducted in Italian. The course will trace out recurrent themes by examining texts from various media: film, literature, music, television, journalism, and architecture. 
4954:Analysis of films from World War II to the present. Lectures and discussion in English. Films in Italian with English subtitles. Readings in Italian for majors, in translation for nonmajors. 
4955:Themes in Italian cinema: literary adaptation, neorealism, a single auteur or period, representations of fascism, the city, the country, industrialization, social space, north/south difference, regionalism, gender, and sexuality. 
4956:Expansion of speaking, writing, vocabulary, and grammar in Italian through the study of a variety of films. Topics relating to global issues, transnational connections between different countries, and diversity in Italy will be explored. 
4957:Explores the images of Italian Americans in literature and film, from representations of Italian immigrant otherness to attempts at identity construction, differentiation, and assimilation by Italian American authors and filmmakers. 
4958:This course offers a cultural approach to the study of Italian culture in the 20th century, examining material across disciplines: literature, visual arts, music, history, architecture. 
4959:For students with special aptitude and interest in developing Italian language skills. Covers first-year material in one semester. Emphasis in the first semester is on grammar. May not be used to satisfy the Foundations foreign language requirement. Students may not receive credit for both ITAL 401 and ITAL 101 or 102. 
4960:Covers second-year material in one semester. Develops skills, with increasing emphasis on reading and writing. Prepares students for more advanced courses. May not be used to satisfy the Foundations foreign language requirement. Students may not receive credit for both ITAL 402 and ITAL 203 or 204. 
4961:Review of advanced grammar. Composition on a variety of topics designed to enhance writing proficiency in Italian. Training in the use of stylistic devices. 
4962:Permission of the instructor for undergraduates. The survey is based on anthologies, with particular attention to authors and texts included in the current departmental reading lists. 
4963:Permission of the instructor for undergraduates. See ITAL 511 for description. 
4964:The evolution of the Italian language from vulgar Latin. Substratum theory and the development of the various dialects. Codification of the literary standard during the Renaissance. "Questione della lingua. 
4965:Required of students reading for honors. Preparation of an essay under direction of a member of the faculty. Topics to be approved by thesis director in consultation with honors advisor. 
4966:Restricted to senior honors candidates. Second semester of senior honors thesis. Thesis preparation under the direction of a departmental faculty member. 
4967:Introduces students to Italian women writers whose works explore how historical realities such as fascism, resistance, migration, immigration, and changing institutions of work and family have affected women. 
4968:Introduces students to the world of Dante, Petrarch, and Boccaccio, situated within the context of medieval and early modern Europe. 
4969:Examines the historical relationships between food and culture in Italian society. students lacking the prerequisite. 
4970:A survey of Italian literature from its origins through the 16th century. for students lacking the prerequisite. 
4971:A survey of Italian literature from the 17th century to the present. students lacking the prerequisite. 
4972:A representative sampling of the genre from Pirandello to the present. students lacking the prerequisite. 
4973:Required preparation, two major-level courses or permission of the instructor. A tutorial for advanced students in Italian on a topic agreed upon by the student and a member of the faculty. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
4974:Independent study on a selected topic in Italian literature and culture agreed upon by the student and a member of the faculty. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
4975:A seminar on a previously announced subject. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
4976:Introduces the essential elements of Portuguese structure and vocabulary and aspects of Brazilian and Portuguese culture. Aural comprehension, speaking, reading, and writing are stressed in that order. Students may not receive credit for both PORT 101 and PORT 111 or 401. 
4977:Continues study of essential elements of Portuguese structure, vocabulary, and aspects of Brazilian and Portuguese culture. Aural comprehension, speaking, reading, and writing are stressed in that order. Students may not receive credit for both PORT 102 and PORT 111 or 401. 
4978:Covers the material of the PORT 101 and 102 sequence in a single semester. Students may not receive credit for both PORT 111 and PORT 101, 102, or 401. 
4979:Further development of language with emphasis on speaking, writing, and a review of grammar. Includes advanced Portuguese structures, cultural and literary texts. Students may not receive credit for both PORT 203 and PORT 212 or 402. 
4980:Continued development of language skills for communication. Further study of grammar. Students may not receive credit for both PORT 204 and PORT 212 or 402. 
4981:A continuation of PORT 111; covers the material of PORT 203 and 204 in one semester. Students may not receive credit for both PORT 212 and PORT 203, 204, or 402. 
4982:Development of speaking skills through discussion of media, popular music, and selected texts. 
4983:Study of Brazilian capoeira from its roots to the present day. Focus on verbal and nonverbal discourse experienced through the rules, songs, movements, rhythms, rituals of capoeira. In English; credit for major/ minor in Portuguese if readings and written work are done in Portuguese. 
4984:Emphasizes the learning of Portuguese through cultural context. Language, society, and miscegenation will be approached through texts and films. Focus on important aspects of religion, festivities, and popular music from the Portuguese-speaking countries of three continents. 
4985:Introduces the profession of interpreter: main interpretation models, history and theory, use of cognitive processes in developing skills, ethical standards, and best practices. Emphasis on expanding communicative and cultural competency while applying strategies in business, conference interpretation, education, health care, and law enforcement. 
4986:Refines interpretation skills through continued study of theory and best practices in varied professional contexts. Focuses on enhancing linguistic competence, sight-translation, and mnemonic strategies. Increases cultural sensitivity to issues interpreters face in business, conference interpretation, education, health care, the hospitality industry, law, and social services. 
4987:Introduction to translation theory, history and methods, and the basic elements of Portuguese-to-English and English-to-Portuguese translation through a variety of prose styles. Upon completion, students should be able to demonstrate usage and understanding of the elementary processes involved in translating. 
4988:Refines translation skills in cultural and consumer-oriented, financial, legal, literary, medical, and technical domains. Emphasis on expanding written proficiency and refining style, translating representative texts from diverse populations in the United States and in Portuguese-speaking countries, and demonstrating advanced lexical and grammatical proficiency in Portuguese. 
4989:This course is devoted to the study of Brazilian culture through representative works of 19th- and 20th-century literature. 
4990:Trajectory of women writers of the Portuguese-speaking world, with main focus on texts of the 20th and 21st century. Analysis of works within a social-historical and literary context. 
4991:History of Luso-African literature with special attention to writers such as Mia Couto, Guilherme de Melo, Paula de Chiziane, and José Eduardo. Taught in English, available for credit for major/minor in Portuguese if readings and written work are done in Portuguese. 
4992:Literary and cinematic representations of Candomblé, Sebastianism, Positivism, and Spiritism from late-19th through the 20th century. Focus on the penetration these forms of religiosity into mainstream Brazilian culture. Taught in English; credit for Portuguese major/minor if readings and work done in Portuguese. 
4993:Study of the literary and cultural film production of the Portuguese- speaking world on three continents. Films in Portuguese with English subtitles. 
4994:Required preparation, two major-level courses or permission of the instructor. A tutorial for advanced students in Portuguese on a topic agreed upon by the student and a member of the faculty. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
4995:Independent study on a selected topic in Luso-Brazilian literature and culture agreed upon by the student and a member of the faculty. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
4996:A seminar on a previously announced subject. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
4997:For students who have fulfilled their foreign language requirement with another language. Covers first-year material in one semester. Introduction to spoken Portuguese with literary and cultural readings. May not be used to satisfy the Foundations foreign language requirement. Students may not receive credit for both PORT 401 and PORT 101, 102, or 111. 
4998:Covers second-year material in one semester. Further study of spoken Portuguese with literary and cultural readings. May not be used to satisfy the Foundations foreign language requirement. Students may not receive credit for both PORT 402 and PORT 203, 204, or 212. 
4999:An introduction to Portuguese literature from its origins through the 18th century. 
5000:A survey of Portuguese literature of the 19th and 20th centuries. 
5001:A survey of Brazilian literature of the colonial period and 19th century. 
5002:Study of major writers of 20th-century Brazilian literature. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
5003:Survey of the history of Portuguese with stress on the characteristics of Brazilian Portuguese and the factors underlying them. students lacking the prerequisite. 
5004:Introduction to the linguistic analysis of Portuguese. Basic linguistic comparison of Portuguese dialects at different levels of linguistic structure. Emphasis on theoretical background in understanding language variation as a property of natural languages. 
5005:A study of representative Brazilian plays of the 20th century with a review of the development of the theater in Brazil. students lacking the prerequisite. 
5006:Required of all students reading for honors. Preparation of an essay under the direction of a faculty member. Topic to be approved by thesis director in consultation with honors advisor. 
5007:Restricted to senior honors candidates. Second semester of senior honors thesis. Thesis preparation under the direction of a departmental faculty member. 
5008:Students examine the expressive use of language in oral and written texts. Particular emphasis is placed on the contribution of the cognitive sciences to an understanding of how humans communicate. 
5009:Explores the development of national identities in the Romance world, focusing on conscious and unconscious attitudes toward language that helped fashion the four major Romance languages. 
5010:Explores the development of national identities in the Romance world, focusing on conscious and unconscious attitudes toward language that helped fashion the four major Romance languages. 
5011:This course explore the cultural challenges for Spanish-speaking immigrants in the United States, particularly the importance of language in culture and identity. 
5012:Introduces students to procedures for gathering, transcribing, and analyzing oral histories and to issues related to the growing Hispanic population at both the national and local levels. 
5013:Studies such issues as national identities and national memory; the impact of colonization, postcolonialism, and globalization; conflicts between tradition and modernity; and the place of women in history. 
5014:A study of the literary production of Hispanics living in the United States. Examines works by Chicano, Puerto Rican, Nuyorican, Dominican, and Cuban American writers. 
5015:A study of the literary production of Hispanics living in the United States. Examines works by Chicano, Puerto Rican, Nuyorican, Dominican, and Cuban American writers. 
5016:This course explores the concept of harmony in selected Italian writers from Dante to contemporary film directors. 
5017:Participants read poems, letters, stories, and short novels by Mexican women of the 20th century. Focus on gender and transgression, feminism, identity formation, and marginality. Selections from Elena Poniatowska, Sandra Cisneros, Cristina Rivera Garza, Ana Clavel, and Ángeles Mastretta, among others. 
5018:Students study Spanish language and Latino cultures through the lens of social entrepreneurship, a process of opportunity recognition, resource gathering, and value creation that brings sustainability to a social mission. 
5019:In the United States, 17 percent of children have a developmental disability. How do they learn and use language to communicate, socialize, and achieve goals? How do we improve their language skills? This course examines these and other questions and helps students understand and carry out research with special populations. 
5020:Analysis of how Latin transformed the linguistic configuration of the world and its lasting impact on culture and science. No previous knowledge of Latin or of any Romance language necessary to enroll. 
5021:Special topics course. Content will vary by each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
5022:An introduction to literature in the Romance languages. All readings in English translation. Focus and readings will vary. 
5023:An introduction to literature in the Romance languages. All readings in English translation. Focus and readings will vary. 
5024:Introduction to basic paradigms of thinking about cultural difference (race, gender, nationality, religion, etc.), shaping how we act, think, and imagine as members of diverse cultures. 
5025:Required preparation, B.A. with honors student or M.A. student. Provides training in research methodology for a B.A. with honors or M.A. thesis. Students will learn to conceptualize an original research project and to identify and assess the current intellectual debates in their chosen areas of research. 
5026:This graduate seminar consists of a series of in-depth studies of several major contemporary approaches to literary theory. Designed primarily as an elective for masters candidates in Romance Languages, this course aims to prepare students for advanced literature and literary theory courses. ROML 650. The Politics of Remembering: Memory, History, and Power in 20th-Century Europe. 3 Credits. Interdisciplinary, comparative, and multimedia approach to the question of memory and history in 20th-century Europe. Explores individual memory, collective memory, and commemoration. Survey of interdisciplinary approaches to the field and an examination of historical sites through the narratives of mental illness, fiction, memoir, testimonial literature, photography, and film. 
5027:Critical examination of 20th-century Latin American cultural history in Brazil and Spanish-speaking countries, including Mexico, Cuba, El Salvador, Peru, Colombia, and Argentina. Course is framed between late 19th-century modernization and the contemporary discussion on globalization. 
5028:Required preparation, one Spanish or Portuguese major-level literature course or permission of the instructor. Critical readings of photography through the lens of Brazilian and Spanish-American written, photographic, and film archives. This course is designed for graduate and advanced undergraduate students and considers current theoretical movements in photography alongside the historical, political, and aesthetic debates shaping the field of Latin American visual culture. 
5029:Capstone course. 
5030:Online course that includes essentials of elementary Spanish. Designed for students with previous study who place into first-semester Spanish. Upon successful completion students will enroll in SPAN 102. Students may not receive credit for both SPAN 100 and SPAN 101, 111, or 401. 
5031:Introduces the essential elements of Spanish structure and vocabulary and cultural aspects of the Spanish-speaking world. Aural comprehension, speaking, reading, and writing are stressed. Students may not receive credit for both SPAN 101 and SPAN 100, 111, or 401. 
5032:Continues the study of the essential elements of Spanish structure, vocabulary, and the cultural aspects of the Spanish-speaking world. Aural comprehension, speaking, reading, and writing. Students may not receive credit for both SPAN 102 and SPAN 105, 111, 401, or 404. 
5033:Continues the study of the essential elements of Spanish structure, vocabulary, and the cultural aspects of the Spanish-speaking world. Aural comprehension, speaking, reading, and writing. Students may not receive credit for both SPAN 102 and SPAN 105, 111, 401, or 404. 
5034:Accelerated course that covers SPAN 101 and 102 for students with previous study of Spanish. Aural comprehension, speaking, reading, and writing. Students may not receive credit for both SPAN 105 and SPAN 102, 111, 401, or 404. 
5035:Permission of the instructor. Covers the material of the SPAN 101 and 102 sequence in a single semester. Students may not receive credit for both SPAN 111 and SPAN 100, 101, 102, or 401. 
5036:Develops language skills for communication. Review of elementary Spanish. Expands awareness of the Spanish-speaking world through readings and discussion of representative texts. Students may not receive credit for both SPAN 203 and SPAN 212, 402, or 405. 
5037:Develops language skills for communication. Review of elementary Spanish. Expands awareness of the Spanish-speaking world through readings and discussion of representative texts. Students may not receive credit for both SPAN 203 and SPAN 212, 402, or 405. 
5038:Continued development of language skills for communication. Considers finer points of linguistic structure. Expands awareness of Spanish culture through reading, inquiry, and class discussion. Students may not receive credit for both SPAN 204 and SPAN 212 or 402. 
5039:Continued development of language skills for communication. Considers finer points of linguistic structure. Expands awareness of Spanish culture through reading, inquiry, and class discussion. Students may not receive credit for both SPAN 204 and SPAN 212 or 402. 
5040:A continuation of SPAN 111; covers the material of SPAN 203 and 204 in one semester. Students may not receive credit for both SPAN 212 and SPAN 203, 204, or 402. 
5041:Emphasis on further development and refinement of speaking, listening, reading, and writing skills, including review of grammar. Study of cultural and literary texts. 
5042:An introduction to the study of Jewish culture in Argentina, using different cultural products as an approach to understanding the process whereby Jews in Argentina moved from being poor immigrants to having prominent roles in the society. Restricted to students in the Buenos Aires summer study abroad program. 
5043:Students experience Buenos Aires through films. Studying the historical and social background through readings, films, and visits to the sites where Jewish life in Buenos Aires is taking place helps students make authentic connections between fiction and reality. Restricted to students in the Buenos Aires summer study abroad program. 
5044:Introductory conversation. Builds oral proficiency and awareness of Hispanic culture. Emphasizes vocabulary and grammatical accuracy; writing activities support speaking. Not open to native speakers. Students may not receive credit for both SPAN 255 and SPAN 266. 
5045:Introductory conversation. Builds oral proficiency and awareness of Hispanic culture. Emphasizes vocabulary and grammatical accuracy; writing activities support speaking. Not open to native speakers. Students may not receive credit for both SPAN 255 and SPAN 266. 
5046:Develops skills for further literary studies while increasing Spanish language proficiency and providing different world views through literature. Native speakers need permission of the instructor. Students may not receive credit for both SPAN 260 and SPAN 262. 
5047:Develops skills for further literary studies while increasing Spanish language proficiency and providing different world views through literature. Native speakers need permission of the instructor. Students may not receive credit for both SPAN 260 and SPAN 262. 
5048:Develops skills for further literary studies. Open only to heritage learners. Students may not receive credit for both SPAN 260 and SPAN 262. 
5049:Spanish conversation for native speakers. Develops vocabulary and standard grammar skills, supports research in the history and lives of Hispanics in the United States. First in two-course sequence with SPAN 326. Students may not receive credit for both SPAN 266 and SPAN 255. 
5050:Narrative works of Borges, Cortázar, García Márquez, and other contemporary Spanish American writers. 
5051:Representative Spanish authors from the Middle Ages to the present. 
5052:Study and discussion of Don Quijote with consideration of the Exemplary Novels and the background of Renaissance prose. 
5053:Permission of the program director based on oral proficiency interview. Students must have advanced proficiency in Spanish. Students learn and implement fundamentals of foreign language instruction as peer tutors for elementary Spanish courses. Students may take course twice for credit. May not count toward the major or minor in Spanish. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
5054:Permission of the instructor. Service learning component for students enrolled in Spanish language courses. May not count toward the major or minor in Spanish. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 3 total credits. 3 total completions. 
5055:This Pass/Fail one-credit hour course is designed for students who have successfully completed SPAN 204 (or its equivalent) and have been informed by their instructor that they would benefit from additional review of grammar. SPAN 294 can be taken in conjunction with other fifth-semester courses. 
5056:Intensive grammar review and composition designed to improve accuracy and develop writing skills, using process and task-oriented approaches. Students may not receive credit for both SPAN 300 and SPAN 326. 
5057:Intensive grammar review and composition designed to improve accuracy and develop writing skills, using process and task-oriented approaches. 
5058:Permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisite. A recitation section for LAC courses. May not count toward the major or minor in Spanish. course required. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 4 total credits. 4 total completions. 
5059:Expands speaking skills through vocabulary building, discussion of texts, and conversation. Ongoing development of writing skills. Not open to native speakers. 
5060:All-skills course with review of grammar and extensive writing and speaking practice. Vocabulary, readings, and activities geared toward the language of business professions in the context of the United States Hispanic community. 
5061:All-skills course with review of grammar, extensive writing and speaking practice. Vocabulary, readings, and activities geared toward the language of health care professions in the context of the United States Hispanic community. Open only to students in the minor in Spanish for the professions. 
5062:All-skills course with review of grammar and extensive writing and speaking. Vocabulary, readings, activities geared toward the language of journalism and mass communications within the context of the Hispanic community. Open only to students in the minor in Spanish for the professions. 
5063:All-skills course with review of grammar and extensive writing and speaking. Vocabulary, readings, and activities geared toward the language of legal professions within the context of the Hispanic community. Open only to students in the minor in Spanish for the professions. 
5064:Study of language and society from the perspective of Spanish speakers in the United States, focusing on vocabulary building through situational practice, review of basic grammar and practice in reading and writing. Students may not receive credit for both SPAN 300 and SPAN 326. 
5065:All-skills course with a review of grammar and extensive writing and speaking practice. Vocabulary, readings, and activities geared toward the language of business, business planning, and entrepreneurship in the context of the United States Hispanic community. 
5066:Seventh-semester capstone course applying skills in Spanish language and cultures to professional and community contexts. Assignments include professional documents, community service work and projects, and a research project. Open only to students in the minor in Spanish for the professions. 
5067:Cultural history of Spain and Spanish America from the 16th century to the 21st century. Explores trans-Atlantic dimensions of Spanish and Spanish American cultures and the elements that have shaped those societies and their cultural traditions during the periods studied. Formerly offered as SPAN 331. 
5068:This course studies trends in thought, art, film, music, and social practices in the Iberian context, and includes the study of Spain's historical nationalities. Topics may include nationalism, ethnicity, race, class, gender, migration, and popular culture. 
5069:This course studies trends in thought, art, film, music, social practices, in the Spanish speaking Americas, including the United States. Topics may include colonialism, race, class, ethnicity, modernization, ecology, religion, gender, and popular culture. 
5070:Introduces the profession of interpreter: main interpretation models, history and theory, use of cognitive processes in developing skills, ethical standards, and best practices. Emphasis on expanding communicative and cultural competency while applying strategies in business, conference interpretation, education, health care, law, and law enforcement. 
5071:Refines interpretation skills through continued study of theory and best practices in varied professional contexts. Focuses on enhancing linguistic competence, sight-translation, and mnemonic strategies. Increases cultural sensitivity to issues interpreters face in business, conference interpretation, education, health care, the hospitality industry, law, and social services. 
5072:Study of contemporary cultural, historical, and aesthetic issues through narrative film, documentary, and other media from Latin America and Spain. 
5073:Theory and practice of translation through a dual approach of conceptual readings and classroom discussion and workshops in interdisciplinary fields. Emphasizes cultural role of the translator as mediator. 
5074:Translation as product and process. Examines the concept of cultural fluidity in 21st-century translation theory vis-à-vis 20th-century notions of untranslatability. Refines translation skills in cultural, financial, legal, literary, medical, and technical domains. Emphasis on expanding written proficiency and refining style. 
5075:Study of the literatures of Spain centering on representative authors and texts from various literary movements, situated within their sociohistorical contexts. 
5076:The literature of Spanish America from pre-Colombian times to the present. Representative authors and texts from various literary movements will be studied in their sociohistorical contexts. 
5077:Study of the Spanish found today in the United States, its history and characteristics, and the socioeconomic repercussions of its presence in contact with English. 
5078:Introduction to the description of sound systems with a focus on Spanish. Includes the study of the historical development of Spanish and its areal and social variation in Spain, Latin America, and the United States. 
5079:Introduction to the linguistic study of meaning, grammatical form, and dialectal and sociolinguistic variation, with a particular focus on modern Spanish and the languages of Spain and Latin America. 
5080:Introduction to the study of Spanish in contact with African languages in the Iberian Peninsula and Latin America since the beginning of the slave trade. Linguistic analysis of literary texts from a variety of eras will assess how contact with the African diaspora has had a permanent impact on contemporary Spanish. 
5081:The course explores the aesthetics of violence in contemporary Latina/ o American fiction, paying attention to historical memory, rewritings of history, and the formation of otherness and marginality. Selections from Junot Díaz, Graciela Limón, Daniel Alarcón, Santiago Roncagliolo, Horacio Castellanos Moya, Roberto Bolaño, and Orfa Alarcón, among others. 
5082:Spanish-language theater. Specific topics to be announced in advance by the instructor. 
5083:Specific topics to be announced in advance by the instructor. 
5084:Selected works of prose from the Spanish canon organized by topic or theme. 
5085:A survey of lyric poetry, drama, prose, and genres peculiar to the literature before 1500. 
5086:A survey of poetry, drama, and prose of the 16th century. 
5087:A study of the cultural, political, and aesthetic dimensions of the novels and short stories of selected contemporary Spanish American writers such as Borges, Cortázar, García Márquez, Puig, etc. 
5088:The course will explore the most prominent authors of Central America (Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, and the United States) since the 1950s. Critical analysis of their poetry, short stories, novels, testimonial narratives, and films. 
5089:Literary manifestations of love, sexuality, and eroticism as social and political metaphors of contemporary Latin America. Selections from Sor Juana, Agustini, Darío, López Velarde, and Neruda with more emphasis on 20th-century works by writers like Donoso, Vargas Llosa, García Márquez, Poniatowska, Rivera Garza, and Montero. 
5090:Analysis of historical and literary writing, cinematic productions, and popular corridos produced in response to the Mexican Revolution. In addition to exposure to significant milestones in the development of Mexican literature, students will strengthen their Spanish reading ability and sharpen critical skills. 
5091:An overview of the literary and cultural production (essays, novels, short stories, plays, music, film) of Cubans living in the diaspora after the Cuban revolution. 
5092:Workshop designed to develop critical communication skills through student short-story writing in Spanish, with an introduction to influential texts on the craft of writing by authors such as Horacio Quiroga, Julio Garmendia, Felisberto Hernández, Augusto Roa Bastos, Juan Bosch, Jorge Luis Borges, and Julio Cortázar. 
5093:Required preparation, two major-level courses or permission of the instructor. Research project for advanced students on a topic agreed upon by the student and faculty member. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
5094:Seminar on a previously announced topic. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
5095:Permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. A seminar on a previously announced subject. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
5096:Required preparation, proven competence in another foreign language. Covers first-year material in one semester. Emphasis on speaking and grammar. May not be used to satisfy the Foundations foreign language requirement. Students may not receive credit for both SPAN 401 and SPAN 100, 101, 102, 105, or 111. 
5097:Covers second-year material in one semester. Continued development of all skills. Spanish 402 prepares students for more advanced courses. May not be used to satisfy the Foundations foreign language requirement. Students may not receive credit for both SPAN 402 and SPAN 203, 204, or 212. 
5098:Distance course requiring access to the Internet. Focuses on communication within the context of Latino/a immigrant culture in health care settings. Students may not receive credit for both SPAN 404 and SPAN 102 or 105. 
5099:Distance course requiring access to the Internet. Focuses on improving communication within the context of Latino/a immigrant culture in health care settings. This course is equivalent to SPAN 203 (Intermediate Spanish I) and therefore fulfills the foreign language requirement. Students may not receive credit for both SPAN 405 and SPAN 203. 
5100:Study of the language and culture of one of the languages of Spain other than Spanish. Selection will vary according to term: Catalan, Euskera (Basque), Galician. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
5101:Continuation of the study of the language and culture of one of the languages of Spain other than Spanish. Selection will vary according to term: Catalan, Euskera, Galician. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
5102:Study of the language and culture of one of the languages of Spanish America other than Spanish. Selection will vary according to term: Mayan, Nahuatl, Quechua, Guarani. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
5103:Continuation of the study of the language and culture of one of the languages of Spanish America other than Spanish. Selection will vary according to term: Mayan, Nahuatl, Quechua, Guarani. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
5104:For students with no background in Spanish or those needing a review of grammatical structures and vocabulary in preparation for the reading knowledge exam for graduate students (FLPA). 
5105:Advanced survey of literary works from 16th- through 19th-century Spanish America, with emphasis on their rhetorical foundations and historical, political, and aesthetic connections. 
5106:Advanced survey of Spanish American works from the 1880s through the present, with emphasis on their rhetorical foundations and historical, cultural, political, and aesthetic connections. 
5107:The image of woman in 16th- and 17th-century Hispanic literature. A study of texts by Spanish and Spanish American authors. Readings in Spanish or in English translation. Lectures in English. 
5108:Panoramic view of indigenous literatures in the Américas through a study of a variety of indigenous textual production including chronicles, manifestos, novels, testimonial narratives, short stories, poetry, artistic production, and film. 
5109:Study of the literature of the Iberian Peninsula and developments in the visual arts from the Middle Ages to the early 20th century. 
5110:A comprehensive study of the Golden Age Spanish theater from its Renaissance beginnings through the 17th century. 
5111:Advanced study of the history and theory of film produced in the Spanish- and Portuguese-speaking worlds for beginning graduate students and advanced undergraduates. Readings in film history and theory will build students' knowledge in cultural, political, and aesthetic issues. Class discussions emphasize critical and analytical thought. students lacking the prerequisite. 
5112:Why do we say in Spanish "me gusta" ("to me pleases") for "I like it"? Syntax studies how words associate in larger structures. This class provides the tools to understand the forms of different varieties of Spanish. students lacking the prerequisite. 
5113:The formation of the Spanish language and its cultures from Latin origins. Special attention to expansion of Spanish in the Americas and the situation of Spanish today. 
5114:This course is an introduction to the study of meaning and language use, with a focus on Spanish. Includes discussion of the classical texts in the field as well as analysis of a variety of data (corpora, fieldwork, and experimental materials). 
5115:Why and how do children learn language so easily, and why is it so difficult for adults to learn a second language? This course examines these and related questions in the light of current theories of first and second language acquisition, with a focus on Spanish. students lacking the prerequisite. 
5116:This course is an upper undergraduate/graduate-level introduction to the study of the meaning of words and sentences, with a focus on Spanish. It covers the following topics: truth-conditional theories of meaning, modality, quantification, reference, tense and aspect, Aktionsart. The course also addresses cross-linguistic data collection, e.g., field work and experimental methods. 
5117:Interdisciplinary approach to studying the Spanish language as a social and cultural phenomenon. Explores the relationship between language and culture, communicative competence and pragmatics, social and linguistic factors in language variation and change, attitudes toward language and language choice, linguistic prejudice and language myths, and language and identity. 
5118:Guaraní, an official language of Paraguay, is the only indigenous language in the Americas (and possibly in the world) that is spoken natively by a nonindigenous majority. This seminar explores the linguistics of Guaraní: its typology, history, grammar, and sociolinguistics. students lacking the prerequisite. 
5119:Required of students reading for honors. Preparation of an essay under the direction of a faculty member. Topic to be approved by thesis director in consultation with honors advisor. 
5120:Restricted to senior honors candidates. Second semester of senior honors thesis. Thesis preparation under the direction of a departmental faculty member. 
5121:An introduction to communication theory, research, and practice in a variety of interpersonal and organizational contexts. This course examines the role of communication in both personal and professional relationships. 
5122:An introduction to communication theory, research, and practice in a variety of interpersonal and organizational contexts. This course examines the role of communication in both personal and professional relationships. 
5123:Meaning and content of work in modern industrial society. Preparation for work; autonomy and control; inequality; consequences for health, safety, and family life. 
5124:Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Introduction to the theory and practice of communication in the small group setting. Topics may include group development, conformity and deviation, gender, problem solving, and power and leadership. 
5125:Analysis of the ways in which consumers and business firms interact in a market economy. Students may not receive credit for both ECON 310 and 410. 
5126:Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. The course explores the historical and theoretical developments in the research and practice of organizational communication. 
5127:Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. The course explores the historical and theoretical developments in the research and practice of organizational communication. 
5128:Main features of the American economy: colonial times to the present. Students may not receive credit for both ECON 330 and ECON 430. 
5129:Industry structure and its relation to performance; market imperfections; description and analysis of antitrust and regulation. Students may not receive credit for both ECON 345 and ECON 445. 
5130:A survey of the rise and development of the major financial, commercial, manufacturing, and transportation enterprises that transformed the United States from an agricultural into a leading industrial nation. 
5131:From the experience of colonial artisans to contemporary factory and office workers, organized and unorganized, this course examines the effect of the industrial revolution on the American social and political landscape. 
5132:An economic analysis of workplace issues, including worker quits, layoffs and unemployment, discrimination and affirmative action, and the setting of pay, fringe benefits, and working conditions. Students may not receive credit for both ECON 380 and ECON 480. 
5133:Varieties of organizational forms, their structures and processes; creation, persistence, transformation, and demise; role of organizations in contemporary society. 
5134:Analysis of social structure and stratification in terms of class, status, prestige, and rank. Attention to social roles of elites, professionals, the middle class, and the working class and to comparative topics. 
5135:Examination of the structure and operation of institutions where economy and society intersect and interact, such as education, industrial organizations, on-the-job training, labor markets, and professional associations. Emphasis on the contemporary United States, with selected comparisons with Western Europe and Japan. 
5136:Supply and characteristics of labor and of jobs, including industrial and occupation changes, education and mobility of labor, and changing demography of the workforce. 
5137:Directed independent research under the supervision of a faculty advisor. 
5138:Preparation of an honors thesis and an oral examination on the thesis. 
5139:This course will engage philosophical and sociological questions in order to explore the key issues involved in the contentious question of the actual and proper role of religion in American public life. 
5140:The course will examine the social aspects of emotional experience including current debates among sociologists and psychologists about the social functions of emotions. 
5141:This course focuses on social inequality in human societies by looking at social inequalities in different historical periods and geographical locations. 
5142:This first-year seminar is designed to 1) research and document the consequences of welfare reform and 2) participate in the political debate over reauthorization of the welfare law. 
5143:The course examines the nature and meaning of work in America at the beginning of the 21st century. 
5144:What does it mean to say that reality is "socially constructed"? How do people in different social groups develop shared perspectives? In exploring answers to these questions (and others) the course will also examine the self from a sociological perspective. 
5145:Citizenship takes on new meaning in a global context. This course examines current debates, examples of human rights charters, and students apply what they learn to sociological topics. 
5146:Fast food restaurants have become a model for everyday life. Some scholars even talk about the "McDonaldization" of the world. By that scholars mean a drive toward greater efficiency, predictability, calculability, and control by technologies in modern organizations. Sociologists call this process "rationalization," which will be examined in this course. 
5147:This course will present a comparative and multidisciplinary perspective on how globalization affects labor markets and inequality. 
5148:This course investigates the origins, dynamics, and influence of social movements in American society. It examines why people join movements, how movements work, and the way that movements are able to affect broader changes in our society. 
5149:This course exposes students to the social, economic, political, and religious currents that have made the Islamic world one of the most important regions for global affairs, as well as one of the regions least understood in the United States. 
5150:Society shapes our lives and yet we seek to influence the direction of our biographies through personal effort (also called "agency"). This course examines the dynamic between society and agency, which becomes especially interesting in times of social change, when societies redefine the paths that lives can take. 
5151:The course examines cooperation and conflict in settings where there is no state and legal system that enforces rules of conduct: early encounters of Europeans and non-Europeans; migrants and colonists in a wilderness, such as New England Puritans and Mormons in Utah; good Samaritans who rescue strangers despite risks. 
5152:Brown v. Board of Education centers on one of the most significant and controversial issues in American public education: equality of educational opportunity. This course examines race in America and its affect on public education before and after Brown. Topics include school segregation, curriculum tracking, and the black-white achievement gap. 
5153:This course will use the environmental justice movement as a window to explore the dynamics of social movements, health disparities, and social policy. 
5154:Americans are taught that democracy and citizenship go hand in hand: being a good citizen may mean voting, writing letters, and taking other actions to "make one's voice heard." This course examines what citizenship has meant during the course of American history. 
5155:The 1960s were a period of great social upheaval. The course will examine many aspects of American culture: how we organized racial and gender relations; how we expressed our morality through music, art, and film; how we thought about God and spirituality; and how we practiced politics, among others. It will also look at the roots of the 1960s in the events of the 1940s and 1950s and examine a few of the legacies. 
5156:This seminar compares and contrasts historical and contemporary immigration to the United States and then explores the development a migrant community in North Carolina. We will study why people migrate, how citizens respond to migration, how the federal government regulates migration, how local communities manage the settlement of its newcomers. 
5157:Familiarity with basic genetics or a social science field is helpful. This course focuses on how advances in molecular genomics over the past decades benefit sociology and other social sciences. 
5158:Provides tools for comprehensive, frank, civil conversations on controversial topics. 
5159:Examines the nature, causes, and consequences of happiness from diverse social science perspectives. Addresses such questions as, What is happiness? Can we measure happiness? If so, how? Does money buy happiness? Does happiness vary among social groups, cultures, and nations? What is the role of happiness in formulating public policies? 
5160:Examines the nature, causes, and consequences of happiness from diverse social science perspectives. Addresses such questions as, What is happiness? Can we measure happiness? If so, how? Does money buy happiness? Does happiness vary among social groups, cultures, and nations? What is the role of happiness in formulating public policies? 
5161:In this seminar, students delve into the meaning and measurement of race in society, how it changes over time and space, and what it signals for the future of race/ethnic relations in the United States. Seminar activities include data collection and analysis and critical examination of race/ethnicity in popular culture. 
5162:Special topics course. Content will vary each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
5163:Special topics course. Content will vary each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
5164:Introduction to sociology as a discipline that includes study of differences and equality, social structure and institutions, culture, social change, individuals and populations, and social psychology. 
5165:Introduction to sociology as a discipline that includes study of differences and equality, social structure and institutions, culture, social change, individuals and populations, and social psychology. 
5166:Introduction to comparative sociology. The major types of society that have existed or now exist are analyzed, together with major patterns of social change. 
5167:The individual in society. An examination of how people conduct their interactions with others in different kinds of social relationships. Emphasis on the social psychological causes and consequences of such conduct. 
5168:Description and analysis of social aspects of the American South. Emphasis is on recent development and its effects on institutions and culture. 
5169:Social and economic causes of population structure and change. Illustrations drawn from developing countries and the less developed regions and sections of the United States. 
5170:Examination of domination and subordination in general and in specific institutional areas (e.g., economy, polity) along racial and ethnic lines. Causes of changes in the levels of inequality and stratification are also studied. 
5171:The nature and extent of crime and delinquency; emphasis upon contemporary theories of their causation; examination of correctional programs. 
5172:Examination of the social differentiation between men and women. Attention to the extent, causes, and consequences of sexual inequality and to changes in sex roles and their impact on interpersonal relations. 
5173:Comparative analysis of kinship systems and family relations. Courtship, marriage, and parent-child relations viewed within a life-cycle framework. Students may not receive credit for both SOCI 130 and SOCI 425. 
5174:Meaning and content of work in modern industrial society. Preparation for work; autonomy and control; inequality; consequences for health, safety, and family life. 
5175:Patterns of participation in political institutions, public policy, conflict within and between communities and other interest groups, the nature of citizenship in modern society, politics and social change. 
5176:Takes an historical sociology approach to the study of Christianity. Examines the social conditions that helped give rise to the early Christian movement, follows Christianity as it influences and is influenced by social forces at key points in its historical development, and considers important contemporary developments around the globe. 
5177:This course sensitizes students to the diversity of the aging population and the aging experience, recognizes the capacity of older adults for their contributions to society, and fosters intergenerational communication. 
5178:Required of sociology majors. A study of theoretical perspectives in sociology, their relation to contemporary social issues, and their roots in classical social thought. Students may not receive credit for both SOCI 250 and SOCI 253. 
5179:Required of sociology majors. Methods of data collection, with attention to problem selection, sources of information, choice of methods, and research design. Operationalization and measurement; sampling, construction of questionnaires, and interviewing; observation techniques; experimentation. 
5180:Required of sociology majors. Methods of data analysis: descriptive statistics, elements of probability, and inferential statistics and multivariate analysis to permit causal inference. 
5181:The interdisciplinary, team-taught seminar will explore cultural, historical, and political issues of contemporary Germany and analyze German developments from the postwar period to the present. Readings and discussions in English. 
5182:Draws on historical, political, economic, and sociological perspectives to analyze social, cultural, and institutional change. 
5183:Covers theory and practice of social and economic justice, including analyses of racial, gender, sexual, class, national, and other forms of justice, the history of influential movements for justice, and strategies of contemporary struggles. This course has a 30-hour service-learning component. Students may not receive credit for both SOCI 273 and SOCI 274. 
5184:Covers theory and practice of social and economic justice, including analyses of racial, gender, sexual, class, national, and other forms of justice, the history of influential movements for justice, and strategies of contemporary struggles. Students may not receive credit for both SOCI 273 and SOCI 274. 
5185:The course examines how human genomic information can be incorporated into social sciences. Topics include twin studies; an introduction to basic principles of molecular genetics; evolutionary psychology; sex, gender, and genomics; ethical issues in genetic studies; and epigenetics. 
5186:Periodic offering of courses on developing topics in the field. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
5187:This course examines American colleges and universities from several perspectives, ranging from the individual student's experience to the role of higher education in larger social systems. Students will compare the unique needs of these diverse institutions as well as the populations they serve. Does not count toward the sociology major. 
5188:Examines selected topics from a sociological perspective. Course description for a particular semester is available in the department office. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
5189:Permission of the department. This course is an internship experience directly relevant to the student's academic progress in sociology and/or management and society. Pass/Fail only. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
5190:Permission of the director of undergraduate studies. Special reading and research in a selected field under the direction of a member of the department. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
5191:Varieties of organizational forms, their structures and processes; creation, persistence, transformation, and demise; role of organizations in contemporary society. 
5192:Study of nonroutine collective actions such as demonstrations, strikes, riots, social movements, and revolutions, with an emphasis on recent and contemporary movements. Students may not receive credit for both SOCI 413 and SOCI 411. 
5193:Analysis of social structure and stratification in terms of class, status, prestige, and rank. Attention to social roles of elites, professionals, the middle class, and the working class and to comparative topics. 
5194:Study of nonroutine collective actions such as demonstrations, strikes, riots, social movements, and revolutions, with an emphasis on recent and contemporary movements. Substantial field work for experiential education. Students may not receive credit for both SOCI 413 and SOCI 411. 
5195:The city as a social, spatial, and political-economic phenomenon in the modern world. Analysis of urban demographic trends, spatial characteristics and economic functions. Substantive topics include segregation, social turmoil, unemployment, fiscal problems, suburbanization, and urban public policy. Students may not receive credit for both SOCI 414 and SOCI 417. 
5196:Examination of the structure and operation of institutions where economy and society intersect and interact, such as education, industrial organizations, on-the-job training, labor markets, and professional associations. Emphasis on the contemporary United States, with selected comparisons with Western Europe and Japan. 
5197:This course provides a special focus on international migration and social membership/citizenship across a number of advanced industrial immigrant-receiving states. 
5198:The city as a social, spatial, and political-economic phenomenon in the modern world. Analysis of urban demographic trends, spatial characteristics, and economic functions. Substantive topics include segregation, social turmoil, unemployment, fiscal problems, suburbanization, and urban public policy. Students may not receive credit for both SOCI 414 and SOCI 417. 
5199:Designed to help students read complex pictures of contemporary China and to understand how China's rise affected people's lives, both inside and outside of China, from a sociological perspective. The course does not assume any background in Chinese studies. 
5200:Investigates issues such as tradition and social change, religious authority and contestation, and state building and opposition in Muslim societies in the Middle East and around the world. 
5201:Analysis of the reciprocal influences of state and social organizations upon each other; the social bases of political authority and stability, of revolution and counterrevolution. 
5202:Course examines uniqueness of the sociological perspective in understanding mental health and illness. It draws upon various fields to explain mental illness in as broad a social context as possible. Attention focuses on how social factors influence definitions and perceptions of illness. 
5203:An overview of theory and research on education and schooling, with an emphasis on inequalities in educational opportunities, education as a social institution, and the changing context of schools and schooling. Substantial field work for experiential education. Students may not receive credit for both SOCI 423 and SOCI 426. 
5204:A sociological analysis of comparative legal systems, the role of law in social change and in shaping social behavior. Topics may include the legal profession, property distribution, and the role of law in achieving racial and sexual justice. 
5205:A special version of SOCI 130 for juniors, seniors, and beginning graduate students. Students may not receive credit for both SOCI 425 and SOCI 130. 
5206:An overview of theory and research on education and schooling, with an emphasis on inequalities in educational opportunities, education as a social institution, and the changing context of schools and schooling. Students may not receive credit for both SOCI 423 and SOCI 426. 
5207:Supply and characteristics of labor and of jobs, including industrial and occupation changes, education and mobility of labor, and changing demography of the workforce. 
5208:Connections between artworks, art theory, and social theory are examined. Approaches in the fine arts and the social sciences are examined. 
5209:The process of aging from birth to death, with a concentration on the later years of life, examined from a broad perspective. Topics include individual change over the life-course, the social context of aging, and the aging of American society. 
5210:This course introduces students to reasons why people migrate, how citizens respond to that migration, how the federal government regulates migration, and how local communities manage the settlement of newcomers. By the end of the course students should have a solid understanding of major debates in the study of immigration. 
5211:Conflict and conflict-resolution behavior. Applications to labor- management relations, family, sports, community politics, international relations. 
5212:Conceptualizations of gender, race, and class and how, separately and in combination, they are interpreted by the wider society. Emphasis on how black and working-class women make sense of their experiences at work and within the family. 
5213:The course examines how emotions are organized within social groupings and institutions. Differences in socialization by gender, ethnicity, social class, and age will be explored. 
5214:Theories concerning the development process (motivational vs. institutional economics vs. political and social development; similarity of sequential states and outcomes) will be related to policy problems facing the developing nations. 
5215:Introduction to Latin American ideologies and values; economic and demographic changes; major pressure groups (old elites, entrepreneurs, peasants and working classes, military and intellectuals); and relations with the United States. 
5216:Analysis of current problems in general social theory; action and structure, justice and equity, social change and reproduction. Contrast and evaluation of leading approaches to solutions. 
5217:This course examines issues of poverty and social policy, single-mother families, the welfare debate, and homelessness. 
5218:The primary objective of the course is to explain how and why particular social arrangements affect the types and distribution of diseases, as well as the types of health promotion and disease prevention practices that societies promote. 
5219:Human rights are inherent in the advance of peace, security, prosperity, and social equity. They are shared by the global community, yet require local embedding. Course includes a service-learning component. 
5220:This course introduces the principles of international cooperation and conflict resolution; theories of how international agreements develop or break down; and the logic of mediation, arbitration, and negotiation. 
5221:Required preparation, basic statistics courses. This seminar introduces guidelines for conducting aging and cohort analysis in social and epidemiologic research in which time and change are concerns. Uses three common research designs with an emphasis on new analytic models and methods. 
5222:Permission of the department. SOCI 691H is required of senior honors candidates. Individual student research (under supervision of an advisor). Weekly seminar to discuss work on honors thesis, as well as special topics in sociology. 
5223:Permission of the department. Individual student research under supervision of an advisor. Weekly seminar to discuss work on honors thesis as well as special topics in sociology. 
5224:Permission of the instructor. Graduate study in sociology for undergraduate students. Undergraduate students taking a 700- or 800-level course in sociology register via this course and complete all requirements for the associated graduate course. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
5225:In this course, we will investigate the structure of these decision problems, show how they can be solved (at least in principle), and solve some simple problems. 
5226:Networks, mathematical structures that are composed of nodes and a set of lines joining the nodes, are used to model a wide variety of familiar systems. 
5227:This seminar aims to show that contrary to common belief, statistics can be exciting and fun. The seminar will consist of three modules: statistics in our lives, randomness, and principles of statistical reasoning. 
5228:The aim of this class is to study the role of uncertainty in our daily lives, to explore the cognitive biases that impair us, and to understand how one uses quantitative models to make decisions under uncertainty in a wide array of fields including medicine, law, finance, and the sciences. 
5229:This seminar will use recently assembled historical material to tell the exciting story of the origins and development of operations research during and after World War II. 
5230:We will study some basic statistical decision-making procedures and the errors and losses they lead to. We will analyze the effects of randomness on decision making using computer experimentation and physical experiments with real random mechanisms like dice, cards, and so on. 
5231:Studies the Environmental Protection Agency's Criteria Document, mandated by the Clean Air Act; this document reviews current scientific evidence concerning airborne particulate matter. Students learn some of the statistical methods used to assess the connections between air pollution and mortality, and prepare reports on studies covered in the Criteria Document. 
5232:The theory of probability, which can be used to model the uncertainty and chance that exist in the real world, often leads to surprising conclusions and seeming paradoxes. We survey and study these, along with other paradoxes and puzzling situations arising in logic, mathematics, and human behavior. 
5233:This course is designed to emphasize the motivation, philosophy, and cultivation of statistical reasoning in the interdisciplinary areas of statistical science and bioinformatics. 
5234:Introduces basic concepts in finance and economics, useful tools for collecting and summarizing financial data, and simple probability models for quantification of market uncertainty. 
5235:This seminar looks at a variety of ways in which modern computational tools allow easy and informative viewing of data. Students will also study the kinds of choices that have to be made in data presentation and viewing. 
5236:Introduces students to the world of genetics and DNA and to the use of computers to organize and understand the complex systems associated with the structure and dynamics of DNA and heredity. 
5237:Special Topics Course. Contents will vary each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
5238:An introduction to multivariable quantitative models in economics. Mathematical techniques for formulating and solving optimization and equilibrium problems will be developed, including elementary models under uncertainty. 
5239:Elementary introduction to statistical reasoning, including sampling, elementary probability, statistical inference, and data analysis. STOR 151 may not be taken for credit by students who have credit for ECON 400 or PSYC 210. 
5240:Data analysis; correlation and regression; sampling and experimental design; basic probability (random variables, expected values, normal and binomial distributions); hypothesis testing and confidence intervals for means, proportions, and regression parameters; use of spreadsheet software. 
5241:Introduction to basic concepts and techniques of discrete mathematics with applications to business and social and physical sciences. Topics include logic, sets, functions, combinatorics, discrete probability, graphs, and networks. 
5242:The use of mathematics to describe and analyze large-scale decision problems. Situations involving the allocation of resources, making decisions in a competitive environment, and dealing with uncertainty are modeled and solved using suitable software packages. 
5243:Fundamental principles and methods of sampling populations, with emphasis on simple, random, stratified, and cluster sampling. Sample weights, nonsampling error, and analysis of data from complex designs are covered. Practical experience through participation in the design, execution, and analysis of a sampling project. students lacking the prerequisite. 
5244:Linear, integer, nonlinear, and dynamic programming, classical optimization problems, network theory. 
5245:Introduction to mathematical theory of probability covering random variables; moments; binomial, Poisson, normal and related distributions; generating functions; sums and sequences of random variables; and statistical applications. 
5246:Introduction to Markov chains, Poisson process, continuous-time Markov chains, renewal theory. Applications to queueing systems, inventory, and reliability, with emphasis on systems modeling, design, and control. 
5247:Review of basic inference; two-sample comparisons; correlation; introduction to matrices; simple and multiple regression (including significance tests, diagnostics, variable selection); analysis of variance; use of statistical software. 
5248:Introduces concepts of random number generation, random variate generation, and discrete event simulation of stochastic systems. Students perform simulation experiments using standard simulation software. 
5249:Probability models for long-term insurance and pension systems that involve future contingent payments and failure-time random variables. Introduction to survival distributions and measures of interest and annuities-certain. 
5250:Short term probability models for potential losses and their applications to both traditional insurance systems and conventional business decisions. Introduction to stochastic process models of solvency requirements. 
5251:Requires permission of the department. Mathematical decision sciences majors only. An opportunity to obtain credit for an internship related to statistics, operations research, or actuarial science. Pass/Fail only. Does not count toward the mathematical decision sciences major or minor. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
5252:Permission of the director of undergraduate studies. This course is intended mainly for students working on honors projects. May be repeated for credit. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 6 total completions. 
5253:Functions of random samples and their probability distributions, introductory theory of point and interval estimation and hypothesis testing, elementary decision theory. 
5254:Topics selected from: design of experiments, sample surveys, nonparametrics, time-series, multivariate analysis, contingency tables, logistic regression, and simulation. Use of statistical software packages. 
5255:Introduction to theory and methods of machine learning including classification; Bayes risk/rule, linear discriminant analysis, logistic regression, nearest neighbors, and support vector machines; clustering algorithms; overfitting, estimation error, cross validation. 
5256:Required preparation, calculus of several variables, linear or matrix algebra. Formulation, solution techniques, and sensitivity analysis for optimization problems which can be modeled as linear, integer, network flow, and dynamic programs. Use of software packages to solve linear, integer, and network problems. 
5257:Required preparation, calculus of several variables, linear or matrix algebra. The theory of linear programming, computational methods for solving linear programs, and an introduction to nonlinear and integer programming. Basic optimality conditions, convexity, duality, sensitivity analysis, cutting planes, and Karush-Kuhn-Tucker conditions. 
5258:Required preparation, advanced calculus. Lebesgue and abstract measure and integration, convergence theorems, differentiation. Radon- Nikodym theorem, product measures. Fubini theorems. Lp spaces. 
5259:Foundations of probability. Basic classical theorems. Modes of probabilistic convergence. Central limit problem. Generating functions, characteristic functions. Conditional probability and expectation. students lacking the prerequisite. 
5260:Review of probability, conditional probability, expectations, transforms, generating functions, special distributions, and functions of random variables. Introduction to stochastic processes. Discrete-time Markov chains. Transient and limiting behavior. First passage times. 
5261:Exponential distribution and Poisson process. Birth-death processes, continuous-time Markov chains. Transient and limiting behavior. Applications to elementary queueing theory. Renewal processes and regenerative processes. 
5262:Required preparation, two semesters of advanced calculus. Probability spaces. Random variables, distributions, expectation. Conditioning. Generating functions. Limit theorems: LLN, CLT, Slutsky, delta-method, big-O in probability. Inequalities. Distribution theory: normal, chi-squared, beta, gamma, Cauchy, other multivariate distributions. Distribution theory for linear models. 
5263:Point estimation. Hypothesis testing and confidence sets. Contingency tables, nonparametric goodness-of-fit. Linear model optimality theory: BLUE, MVU, MLE. Multivariate tests. Introduction to decision theory and Bayesian inference. 
5264:Permission of the instructor. Basics of linear models: matrix formulation, least squares, tests. Computing environments: SAS, MATLAB, S +. Visualization: histograms, scatterplots, smoothing, QQ plots. Transformations: log, Box-Cox, etc. Diagnostics and model selection. 
5265:ANOVA (including nested and crossed models, multiple comparisons). GLM basics: exponential families, link functions, likelihood, quasi- likelihood, conditional likelihood. Numerical analysis: numerical linear algebra, optimization; GLM diagnostics. Simulation: transformation, rejection, Gibbs sampler. students lacking the prerequisite. 
5266:Permission of the department. Majors only. Individual reading, study, or project supervised by a faculty member. 
5267:This first-year seminar will expose students to the complex dynamics of race, ethnicity, and gender and how these have shaped the American city since 1945. 
5268:This course introduces students to different ways of understanding plantation culture and how that culture persists today, using close reading strategies and gender analysis. The class will examine film, literature, music, and poetry. 
5269:Course introduces students to literature by women from around the world, particularly stories of a girl's transition to womanhood. Close reading strategies are used to examine films, novels, and poetry. 
5270:Uses photography and its aspects of role playing, performance, and documentation to understand the construction of identity. Looks at historical and contemporary photographers who use assumed identities to explore their changing identity roles and challenge society's stereotypes. Individual and group performance/photography projects working with still photography, video, and the Internet. 
5271:Special topics course. Content will vary each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
5272:An interdisciplinary exploration of the intersections of gender, race, class, and sexuality in American society and internationally. Topics include work; sexuality; gender relations, and images of women in literature, art, and science; and the history of feminist movements. Course readings are drawn from the humanities and the social sciences. 
5273:This course introduces students to the broad range of disciplinary perspectives used by the field of sexuality studies to study, teach, and create knowledge about human sexuality in various functions and forms. 
5274:Examination of the social differentiation between men and women. Attention to the extent, causes, and consequences of sexual inequality and to changes in sex roles and their impact on interpersonal relations. 
5275:Introduces students to concepts in queer theory and recent sexuality studies. Topics include queer lit, AIDS, race and sexuality, representations of gays and lesbians in the media, political activism/literature. 
5276:This course will survey the history of women, gender relations, and notions of sex difference in the United States from the colonial era to present times, with a special emphasis on women's varied experiences and expectations across divisions of class, race, and region. Key themes will include work, politics, citizenship, reproduction, sociability, and sexuality. 
5277:The role of women in performance, composition, patronage, and the music business across a wide range of repertories. 
5278:Introduction to the study of gender and sexuality in African societies. Theoretical questions relating to the cross-cultural study of gender will be a primary focus. Topics include historical perspectives on the study of kinship and family in Africa and the impact of colonialism and other forms of social change. 
5279:Introduces students to feminist theorizing on debates over gender-based oppression. Gives students tools to pursue academic work in women's studies and to understand the relationships among concepts, activism, and change. Required for majors. Strongly recommended for minors. 
5280:Through a variety of texts that span the 20th and 21st centuries, students will be introduced to key concepts, figures, and movements in Latina feminisms. Emphasis will be placed on a diversity of historical and ethno- national perspectives as well as academic interdisciplinarity. 
5281:A comparison of men and women as political actors at the mass and elite level in America. Topics considered include the "gender gap," the women's movement, abortion, and the Equal Rights Amendment. 
5282:Examines the role of lesbians, gays, and bisexuals as political actors in the United States, both as individuals and collectively as a social movement. 
5283:This course examines violence against women by examining theories, causes, and contributing factors surrounding violence against women. 
5284:This interdisciplinary course examines representations of women, concepts of gender, and women's participation in the economic, political, religious, and cultural life of the Middle Ages. Discussion and texts in English. 
5285:A survey of prehistoric art in Africa, the Americas, Australia, and Europe. 
5286:Examines multiple relationships among gender, communication and culture. Explores how communication creates gender and shapes relationships and how communication reflects, sustains, and alters cultural views of gender. 
5287:Gender, race, and class are examined in terms of the spatial patterns of everyday life, regional patterns, and global patterns. (GHA) 
5288:This seminar will explore the lives and work of women in contemporary art through a combination of readings, films, interviews, studio visits with area artists, and visits to museums and galleries. We will engage questions of identity, gender, sexuality, politics, and cultural representation and how these affect the creativity, media, and final output of women artists. 
5289:This course examines the ways in which gender and sexual identities are represented and consumed in popular culture. 
5290:This course asks how gendered identity is shaped over time in relation to different cultural, social, and historical circumstances. Examines the practices of photographers who present themselves and others in assumed identities to comment on shifting social roles and challenge stereotypes. Students use photography to document performance and create self-portraits. 
5291:This course will provide an introduction to Latina literature. We will read a variety of genres from a range of ethno-national perspectives and examine such topics as immigration, identity, mother-daughter relationships, and sexuality. 
5292:Course examines law, religion, medicine, social practices, and ideologies in the lives of women in ancient Greece, from Homer to Hellenistic Egypt, using literature, art, and epigraphy. 
5293:Course examines law, religion, medicine, social practices, and ideologies in the lives of women in ancient Greece, from Homer to Hellenistic Egypt, using literature, art, and epigraphy. 
5294:Course examines the life of women in ancient Rome, from the first beginnings of the organized community in Rome through the early Empire, a period of about 900 years. Also explores aspects of the lives of women in provinces governed by Rome. 
5295:Course examines the life of women in ancient Rome, from the first beginnings of the organized community in Rome through the early Empire, a period of about 900 years. Also explores aspects of the lives of women in provinces governed by Rome. 
5296:Exploration of gender constructs, what it meant to be a woman or a man, in antiquity, as revealed in literary, historical, and archaeological sources. Readings from Homer, Euripides, Plato, Ovid, Virgil, Juvenal, Petronius, and other ancient authors. 
5297:An examination of the development of teachings on issues of gender and sexuality through the history of Western Christianity, with particular focus on contemporary controversies. 
5298:An examination of the development of teachings on issues of gender and sexuality through the history of Western Christianity, with particular focus on contemporary controversies. 
5299:An examination and exploration of women's changing roles and influence, onstage and behind the scenes, in the history of opera. 
5300:Introduction to feminist aesthetics and film theory by the examination of the representation of women in German cinema from expressionism to the present. All materials and discussions in English. 
5301:Course examines the history and culture of Jewish women in America from their arrival in New Amsterdam in 1654 to the present and explores how gender shaped this journey. 
5302:This course analyzes the role of women in Western art as art producers and consumers of art and looks at how women have been represented. 
5303:This course examines and compares the situation of women in politics, the work force, society and family from the French Revolution to the new women's movement in the 1970s with a focus on Britain, France and Germany. One major theme is the history of the struggle for women's emancipation. 
5304:A broad based perspective of women's participation in sport including history of participation, physiological differences, and socio-cultural influences including work, politics, family, economics, and gender roles and identity. 
5305:Intensive study, focused on gender issues of criticism and writing. 
5306:Intensive study, focused on gender issues, of criticism and writing. 
5307:Traces the development of sexual identities and changes in masculine and feminine ideals from Tsarist Russia through the post-Soviet period with emphasis on politics, society, and popular culture. 
5308:Introduction to feminist theory and its implications for the study and practice of political theory. Topics: women in feminist critiques of the Western political tradition, schools of feminist political theory. 
5309:An examination of the individual and collective experiences of black women in America from slavery to the present and the evolution of feminist consciousness. 
5310:A survey of feminist perspectives on topics such as the meaning of oppression, sexism and racism, sex roles and stereotypes, ideals of female beauty, women in the workplace, pornography, rape. 
5311:A survey of feminist perspectives on topics such as the meaning of oppression, sexism and racism, sex roles and stereotypes, ideals of female beauty, women in the workplace, pornography, rape. 
5312:Examines what it means to be male, female, and other gendered categories in different societies. Focus on institutions, groups, and individuals that both shape and challenge how gender is understood, organized, and enacted. 
5313:The role of women in scientific domains throughout history and a consideration of the status of women and men as scientists. The development of science as a cultural practice. 
5314:Examines the experiences of women and gender relations in Latin American societies from pre-Columbian times to the present, providing a new perspective on the region's historical development. 
5315:Through a diverse set of contemporary Latina/o texts, students will examine the response to and representation of gender and militarization in the Américas, examining in particular war, revolution, and the militarization of everyday life connected to spaces such as the United States - Mexico border and the United States prison industrial complex. 
5316:This course will acquaint students with how African American women have been depicted (and depicted themselves) in 20th- and 21st-century media. The course will examine representations of African American women in several aspects of culture including film, art, print, television, theater, and music. 
5317:Course focuses on the history of women in African and Middle Eastern colonial and post-colonial legal systems. It examines 'native' customary law, Islamic law, and human and women's rights. 
5318:Topics are announced in advance and reflect the interest of the particular instructor. Each course will concern itself with a study in depth of some problem or issue in women's studies. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 99 total completions. 
5319:This course provides an overview of language and power studies. Issues: sexist and sex-neutral language; languages of subcultures defined by gender, sexual orientation, ethnicity; hate speech; "politically correct" language. 
5320:Implications of the relationship between women and leisure from a lifestyle perspective and an analysis of the changing role of women and changing leisure concepts from a feminist perspective. 
5321:This course focuses on the contemporary art and social change movement. We will learn how to use site-specific and performative art interventions to make invisible borders, boundaries, and other issues visible and innovatively to create engaged and sustained dialogue. 
5322:This class examines contemporary artistic production by international artists that engage, question, and challenge ideas of the body. Students will create work in relation to the body using digital media. 
5323:Required preparation, at least one AAAD or WMST course. This course seeks to familiarize students with scholarly debates on the importance of gender as a category of analysis, while gaining a greater sense of the African past. 
5324:Examines interpersonal violence, the factors that enable it, and prevention strategies. The course examines violence on both individual and structural levels, considering perpetrators, victims/survivors, and bystanders and drawing upon the expertise of local organizers and service providers in the system of care. 
5325:This course examines the representations of women in contemporary American film and also considers women as producers of film. 
5326:This course uses films, novels, and essays to engage with various notions of activism (as represented in art and social justice organizations) at play in hemispheric America. 
5327:This course uses films, novels, and essays to move beyond sun, sand, and sex representations of Caribbean women to examine how they negotiate imperial and national definitions of their place. 
5328:The course examines and compares the images of war and gender that movies from different time periods and countries propagate and explores the different factors that influence these images and thereby the perception and recollection of war. 
5329:The course examines the interrelations between changes in warfare, the military system, and the gender order in Europe from medieval to modern time, and its reflection in international movies. 
5330:This course will explore women's experiences in America from 1500 to1865. Topics will include the ways in which women have shaped American politics, economy, society, and culture. 
5331:Examines how lawyers, laws, and legal institutions shape an understanding of sexuality and gender in young people. Through legal briefs and judicial opinions, articles, news media, and guest speakers, this course promotes critical thinking about our assumptions about what is "normal" and "appropriate" in youth sexuality and gender. 
5332:This course will examine the changing lives of women in the United states after 1865: Their contribution to economy, society, cultural change, and political struggles. 
5333:This course covers writings by Asian American women and examines issues of gender, race, and sexuality. 
5334:In certain eras, Mary has been more central to Catholic devotion than Christ. This course explores doctrine, liturgy, and popular devotion centering on the Virgin in medieval European Christianity, her impact on colonial religion in the New World, and her roles in Protestantism, Eastern Orthodoxy, and Islam. 
5335:In certain eras, Mary has been more central to Catholic devotion than Christ. This course explores doctrine, liturgy, and popular devotion centering on the Virgin in medieval European Christianity, her impact on colonial religion in the New World, and her roles in Protestantism, Eastern Orthodoxy, and Islam. 
5336:Theories of feminist criticism in relation to general theory and women's writing. 
5337:Theories of feminist criticism in relation to general theory and women's writing. 
5338:This course will examine the role of women of color as grassroots activists, leaders, and thinkers in the new social and community movements of the postwar period. 
5339:An investigation of the forms, characteristics, and variety of the mystical experiences of women. 
5340:The development of a women's literary tradition in the works of such writers as George Sand, George Eliot, Isak Dinesen, Colette, Virginia Woolf, Gertrude Stein, Marguerite Duras, Nathalie Sarraute, Marguerite Yourcenar. 
5341:The study of fiction, poetry, plays, and essays by Southern American women writers of the past 200 years, continuing to the present. 
5342:This course will explore how Americans from 1600 to the present have defined what is masculine and what is feminine and how they have constructed their identities around those definitions. 
5343:Authors' use of narrative techniques to create the separation between heroines and their fictional societies and sometimes also to alienate readers from the heroines. Austen, Flaubert, Ibsen, Arishima, Tanizaki, Abe. 
5344:Examines construction of traditional women's roles in Japan and feminist challenges to them by exploring various aspects of "women's work." Interdisciplinary readings consider law, social custom, media representations, and feminist activism. 
5345:Examines Japanese literature and culture through fiction and poetry by women. Explores ideas in contemporary feminist criticism in Japan and the West as a means to read Japanese women's writing. 
5346:Survey of women's time allocation patterns, labor force participation trends, earnings, occupational selection, and economic history. 
5347:Examines participatory development theory and practice in Africa and the United States in the context of other intervention strategies and with special attention to culture and gender. 
5348:Permission of the instructor. Takes a feminist political economy perspective on debates over current health issues of international concern, including abortion, population control, and sexually transmitted infections. Focuses on the United States, Mexico, and Kenya, as well as on international organizations and social movements. 
5349:Explores women's experiences in the workforce historically and today. Lectures, readings, and discussions examine the larger social and political consequences of women's presence in the workplace, efforts to fashion identities as wage laborers on their own terms, race and class divisions, and the boundaries between their waged and unwaged labors. 
5350:Permission of the instructor. A supervised internship designed to provide experience working in organizations concerned with women's or gender issues. Must be arranged with a faculty advisor during the semester prior to the internship. See the department's website for important information. 
5351:Permission of curriculum chair. Faculty supervison required. Independent reading and research. A student can repeat the course as long as they work on a different topic each time they enroll. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
5352:Permission of the instructor. Compares the histories, experiences, identities, and political struggles of sexual and gender minorities in Asia, the Middle East, Africa, and the Américas and at the United Nations. 
5353:An examination of contemporary gender theory, with particular focus on its application to the study of religion. 
5354:Examines the culturally and historically variable ways in which individuals constitute themselves as cis- or transgendered subjects, drawing upon extant expressive resources, modifying them, and expanding options available to others. Performance of self as the product of esthetically marked or unmarked, everyday actions. 
5355:This course examines postsocialist experiences of the relationship between political, economic, social, and cultural transitions, and challenges in public health and gender relations. 
5356:The course explores cultural beliefs, practices, and social conditions that influence health and sickness of women and men from a cross-cultural perspective. 
5357:The media play a critical role in the construction and contestation of ideas about gender, class, and race. Using a range of methods, students will analyze media messages past and present to understand how gender, race, and class influence media production and consumption. 
5358:This course takes a cross-cultural approach to understanding how reproduction and associated phenomena become arenas where political debates are played out, and where global and local social relations are contested. 
5359:Conceptualizations of gender, race, and class and how, separately and in combination, they are interpreted by the wider society. Emphasis on how black and working-class women make sense of their experiences at work and within the family. 
5360:This course examines the intersections between migration processes and the political, economic, and social dimensions of health and well-being among migrants, their families, and their communities. 
5361:American women authors from the beginnings to the present. 
5362:American women authors from the beginnings to the present. 
5363:Examines gender, space, and place relationships in the modern Middle East. Investigates shifting gender geographies of colonialism, nationalism, modernization, and globalization in this region. (GHA) 
5364:This course deals with various topics related to sexuality and marriage in Jewish tradition and history: sex outside of marriage, wedding ceremonies, regulations of marital sex, menstruation, homosexuality, and more. 
5365:Discussion of topics related to the representation of women in Western art and/or women as producers of art. 
5366:Required preparation, at least one ANTH or one WMST course. A discussion of gender and sex roles and sexuality in past cultures; a cross- cultural examination of ways of knowing about past human behavior. 
5367:Students will explore the representation of intersections between gender, identity, immigration, and migration in Latina/o literature. Emphasis will be placed on the intersections between labor, migration, and United States immigration policy. 
5368:Examines in greater depth and complexity one or more of the issues addressed in PHIL 275, investigating issues of gender, race, and class within the dominant theories of philosophy. 
5369:This course will examine the unprecedented surge of feminist thought and activism in the postwar United States. Course materials and discussions will trace feminists' varied conceptions of empowered womanhood and their expectations of the state, society at large, and each other. 
5370:This course will examine the unprecedented surge of feminist thought and activism in the postwar United States. Course materials and discussions will trace feminists' varied conceptions of empowered womanhood and their expectations of the state, society at large, and each other. 
5371:Examines in greater depth and complexity current issues in feminist political theory. Topics: theories of subjectivity and solidarity, feminist poststructuralist and post-Marxist thinking, gender in the public sphere. 
5372:Spanning the ancient, medieval, and modern West, this course explores normative and non-normative female sexualities, ideas about female bodies, and the regulation of female sexuality by families, religions, and states. 
5373:A study of Russian women's writing after World War II, including both fictional and propagandistic works analyzed in their sociopolitical context. Serves as an introduction to Russian women's studies. Taught in English; some readings in Russian for qualified students. 
5374:This course explores the growing body of research on gender, empire, and nation/nationalism in modern European history by focusing on problems of national belongings and citizenship, state and nation building and empire formation, and the gendered discourses and representations of nation and empire. 
5375:This course explores the growing body of research on gender and welfare in a comparative perspective by focusing on the sexual division of labor in the workforce and the family, related social and family policies, including child care, and social citizenship in a comparative perspective. 
5376:Classic writings and debates relating to gender and development, with emphasis on recent work that critiques conventional development models. The scope is global, with special attention to Latin America and to such questions as how alternative approaches to gender, culture, and development may be more inclusive of diverse peoples and grassroots movements for change. 
5377:This course introduces students to new research on the history of gender, the military, and war in a comparative perspective. It explores the interrelations between changing military systems, types of warfare, the gender order, as well as political, social, and cultural currents in modern history. 
5378:Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Course examines the speeches and other texts that announced and embodied the goals and political strategies of multiple branches of three waves of feminist activism in the United States. 
5379:Explores the lives of women in the Middle East and how they have changed over time. Focus will change each year. 
5380:Looking specifically at the social and cultural construction of women's bodies, this course considers the ways in which biological difference is imbued with social significance. students lacking the prerequisite. 
5381:Introduction to the theoretical and practical contributions of African American feminists who maintain that issues of race, gender, sexuality, and social class are central, rather than peripheral, to any history or strategy for bringing about social justice in the United States. instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
5382:This course will present an overview of the variety and diversity of contemporary American women's experiences of creative expressions. We explore how women have been historically excluded from the arts. instructor for students lacking the prerequisites. 
5383:An interdisciplinary consideration of women's roles, behavior, and ideas in the religious life of Americans from 1636 to 1982. 
5384:Explores through performance contemporary poetry, fiction, nonfiction, and feminist thought by women of color in the United States. 
5385:Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Explores through performance contemporary poetry, fiction, nonfiction, and feminist thought by women of color in the United States. 
5386:This course combines readings and field work in oral history with the study of performance as a means of interpreting and conveying oral history texts. 
5387:This course combines readings and field work in oral history with the study of performance as a means of interpreting and conveying oral history texts. 
5388:An exploration of the distinctive themes in Southern women's lives, using the evidence of history and literature. 
5389:The course covers the history of black women in the United States from the 18th century to the present. It deals with such themes as work, family, community, sexuality, politics, religion, and culture. 
5390:Introduces students to the study of Native American women through the perspectives of anthropology, history, and autobiography. 
5391:Required preparation for undergraduates, WMST 101, one other WMST course beyond the introductory level, and junior/senior standing. Permission of the instructor required for both undergraduates and graduate students. Examines how transnational struggles over reproductive rights, HIV/AIDS, sex work, and "LGBT" rights have used, challenged, and transformed human rights discourses. 
5392:The image of woman in 16th- and 17th-century Hispanic literature. A study of texts by Spanish and Spanish American authors. Readings in Spanish or in English translation. Lectures in English. 
5393:This course focuses on the relationship between family, kinship, new reproductive technologies, and the new genetics from a cross-cultural perspective. 
5394:This course focuses on the relationship between family, kinship, new reproductive technologies, and the new genetics from a cross cultural perspective. 
5395:Permission of the instructor required for undergraduates. Examination of the environmental and health risks, policy institutions, processes, instruments, policy analysis, and major elements of American environmental policy. Lectures and case studies. 
5396:Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Medieval Christians consistently focused on the suffering body as a means of reflecting on Christ's sacrifice. This course considers how medical theories of cognition, gender, and pain influenced the potential role of the body in medieval mystical experience. 
5397:This course explores literature, performance art, film, and photography by Latinas and Latinos whose works may be described as "queer" and that question terms and norms of cultural dominance. 
5398:This course explores Latina/o literature about photography in relation to photography by "queer" Latina/o artists and, through this double focus, poses certain questions about identity, subjectivity, and culture. 
5399:Senior standing and permission of the department. The first semester of the yearlong honors thesis in women's and gender studies. Completing WMST 691H fulfills the WMST 695 requirement for the major. 
5400:Permission of department. Second semester of the yearlong honors thesis project. 
5401:Required preparation, at least one additional WMST course and senior standing or permission of the instructor. Required for majors; strongly recommended for minors. An advanced writing-intensive course drawing on a student's interests and background. Major research of specific topics utilizing feminist perspectives. 
5402:Required preparation, at least one additional WMST course and senior standing or permission of the instructor. Required for majors; strongly recommended for minors. An advanced writing-intensive course drawing on a student's interests and background. Major research of specific topics utilizing feminist perspectives. 
5403:Special topics course. Content will vary each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
5404:Elements of accounting for management planning, budgeting, and control. Emphasis is on management uses of accounting information. Students may not receive credit for both BUSI 101 and BUSI 106, 107, or 108. 
5405:Offered online by Continuing Studies. UNC-Chapel Hill business majors/minors may not take BUSI 106. Role of accounting, basic concepts and methodology, mass data processing, valuation and income determination principles, management and internal control problems, and basic financial statement components. Students may not receive credit for BUSI 106 and BUSI 101. 
5406:Offered in summer school only. Elements of accounting for management planning, budgeting, and control. Emphasis is on management uses of accounting information. Students may not receive credit for both BUSI 107 and BUSI 101 or 108. 
5407:Offered online by Continuing Studies. UNC-Chapel Hill business majors/minors may not take BUSI 108. May be taken before, after, or concurrently with BUSI 106. Elements of accounting for management planning, budgeting, and control. Emphasis is on management uses of accounting information. Students may not receive credit for both BUSI 108 and BUSI 101 or 107. 
5408: Credit. This course introduces the concepts of strengths-based leadership development to help uncover strengths and maximize potential for overall success. Students will learn how to connect these strengths to all areas of life, including, but not limited to, their academic journey as well as their future career path. 
5409: Credit. This course gives students an overview of the career options in business. This overview provides an understanding of the foundations of business and allows students to reflect on what specific business areas they might want to pursue. 
5410:-15 Credits. Business in Europe Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 15 total credits. 4 total completions. 
5411:-15 Credits. Business in East Asia Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 15 total credits. 4 total completions. 
5412:-15 Credits. Business in South Asia Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 15 total credits. 4 total completions. 
5413:-15 Credits. Business in Latin America Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 15 total credits. 4 total completions. 
5414:-15 Credits. Business in the Middle East Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 15 total credits. 4 total completions. 
5415:-15 Credits. Business in Africa Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 15 total credits. 4 total completions. 
5416:-15 Credits. Business in Oceania Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 15 total credits. 4 total completions. 
5417:Open to business majors. Writing- and speaking-intensive course that emphasizes professional communication. Provides opportunities to learn and apply the conventions and expectations for standard business documents and presentations. Features strategies for addressing informative, persuasive, and bad-news messages using a variety of media (print documents, electronic messages, and oral presentations). 
5418:Analysis of the operations functions in both manufacturing and service organizations. Formulating operational policies that improve efficiency and support high-level business strategy. Developing remedies that mitigate uncertainty and variability in operational processes. 
5419: Credit. An introduction to the legal system and an examination of ethical issues that affect business. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 3 total credits. 2 total completions. 
5420:An introduction to leading and managing in organizations. Examines the impact of individual, group, and organizational factors on organizational performance and employee attitudes. Topics include leadership, perceptions, attitudes, motivation, group development, norms and cohesiveness, empowerment, conflict, negotiations, culture, structure, stress, innovation, and change. 
5421:Introduction to marketing with emphasis on the social and economic aspects of distribution, consumer problems, marketing functions and institutions, marketing methods and policies. 
5422:Students will acquire the tools to understand and analyze information presented in corporate financial statements. Financial accounting results and projected results are utilized in virtually every segment of the business world. Knowledge of financial accounting and analysis is necessary for managers, investors, bankers, financial analysts, and professional accountants. 
5423:Theoretical foundations of optimal financial policy. Problems and cases provide application of theory to financial decisions involving cash flow, capital structure, capital budgeting. 
5424: Credit. A follow-up course to BUSI 408 that goes more deeply into the theory and application of financial management. Emphasis is placed on investment, financing, and dividend decisions. Honors version available 
5425:While witnessing an explosion of data, most organizations tend to be awash with data but short on information. This course exposes students to techniques that will help them impact on an organization's strategy, planning, and operations, working on applications spanning a number of fields, including operations management, finance, and marketing. 
5426: Credit. Students analyze sources of competitive success in business organizations using case analysis and written reports to develop analytical reasoning skills for assessing forward looking opportunities for the company. The emphasis is on industry analysis and organizational analysis and the development and management of firm specific competencies for successful growth. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 3 total credits. 2 total completions. 
5427: Credit. Students study the development of alternate forms of corporate-level diversification, with an emphasis on understanding the varied paths of corporate development. There is a focus on the challenges of integrating activities across diversified corporations and the tools to manage firms through the transitions that signal a change in strategy. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 3 total credits. 2 total completions. 
5428:This course explores the intersection of business/economic growth and the major sustainability issues affecting the environment and societal well-being and raises questions about business ethics and the moral responsibility of business leaders, consumers, and citizens. Previously offered as ENEC 306. Honors version available 
5429: Credit. Varied topics in business administration. Honors version available Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 6 total completions. 
5430:Permission of the department. With prior approval, a student may propose and complete an academic research project (paper and presentation) derived from an internship experience. 
5431:-3 Credits. Permission of the department. Supervised individual study and research in the student's special field of interest. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 3 total credits. 2 total completions. 
5432:Students gain an understanding of entrepreneurship and the tools and skills necessary to conceive, plan, execute, and scale a successful new venture. Students develop business ventures in teams through an experiential pedagogy. Honors version available 
5433:Critical concepts and skills for selling products and services, and influencing others in business. Applicable to people considering sales or consulting as a career; to those thinking of starting an entrepreneurial company; or for those who want to understand how to influence peers, subordinates, and management. 
5434: Credit. Helps the student understand the evolutionary stages in the life of a family business and the challenges and opportunities that must be managed at each stage 
5435: Credit. This is a cross-campus course for exceptional students, staff, and faculty, designed to help launch UNC-Chapel Hill start-ups. Only for students serious about launching in the next nine to 12 months. Admission by online application. More information at www.launch.unc.edu. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 4 total completions. 
5436:Student teams engage in consulting projects to help local start-ups tackle entrepreneurial challenges. Data is collected through fieldwork, such as client meetings, customer surveys, interviews with thought leaders, site visits, product tests, and/or focus groups. 
5437:An introduction to the tools and skills necessary to recognize opportunities in high tech, biotech, and traditional start-ups. Local entrepreneurs come to class to pitch to students, who analyze the start-ups from the perspective of venture capitalists. 
5438:Examines what it means to pursue business success as measured by the triple-bottom line of people, planet, and profit. Focuses on strategies that companies implement to reduce environmental impact internally and through the supply chain. Examines the responsibility of business to employees, consumers, the local community, and society at large. Honors version available 
5439: Credit. Recommended preparation, completion of BUSI 503. Helps the student understand specific ownership, stewardship, tax, transition, and wealth management issues that affect family enterprises. 
5440: Credits. Student Teams Achieving Results (STAR) is a live management consulting project that leverages and integrates UNC Kenan-Flagler course curricula. Teams of five to seven M.B.A. and undergraduate students and one faculty member work with major corporations or not-for-profit entities to solve a major strategic issue. Honors version available Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 9 total credits. 2 total completions. 
5441: Credit. The objective of this course is to examine the changing world of private equity investments today. This is a survey course and will help prepare you to work for private equity and venture capital funds or to work for investment banks. 
5442:Permission of the instructor. Explores, at a very advanced level, all stages of the management of a venture capital and private equity fund, from capital formation, deal sourcing, due diligence, monitoring and adding value, and exiting of a portfolio company. Honors version available Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
5443: Credits. A global, live management consulting project that integrates other curricula and students (UNC and beyond). Teams of graduate and undergraduate students and one faculty member work to solve a major strategic issue. Team members participate in a three-day training weekend, virtual teaming, and two weeks of in-country project work. Honors version available Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 9 total credits. 2 total completions. 
5444:Primarily an online class. Use critical thinking and advanced Excel features to create spreadsheet models of common business problems. Topics include flexible design, problem solving, statistical analysis, charting, logic, reference functions, financial analysis, organizing data for complex analysis, what-if analysis, enhanced decision-making tools, troubleshooting workbooks, and VBA. 
5445:Focuses on improving students' soft skills, such as presenting, expressiveness, and interviewing, by applying the principles and techniques of improvisational theater. Participants explore creativity, adaptation, awareness, self-confidence, risk taking, physicality, intuition, and teamwork. Students can stretch their abilities and discover things about themselves and others that are crucial to success. 
5446: Credit. This course is grounded in argument, persuasion, and visual rhetoric to give students skills needed to develop winning presentations. Students learn strategies to help their messages "stick" with their audiences and to develop slide decks for the boardroom and advanced media devices. The course emphasizes efficiency in presentation preparation. 
5447:Permission of the department. Provides student leaders with practical leadership frameworks and tools; creates opportunities to apply these on the job as leaders; and provides individualized coaching, feedback, and mentoring.  This is an applied learning course taught by a seasoned practitioner designed to accelerate each student's development and growth. 
5448:Studies key challenges in effective service delivery through the analysis of staffing and scheduling, customer waiting, and revenue management. Case studies illustrate examples of effective service design and delivery in various service industries including professional services, banking, health care, hospitality, and entertainment. A simulation project is used. Honors version available 
5449:Analyzes the key drivers of supply chain performance including inventories, transportation, information technology, and sourcing. Studies strategies for supply chain coordination, and challenges and opportunities in global supply chains. A supply chain simulation is used. Honors version available 
5450:Provides a broad scope of analytic experience across corporate functions that is beneficial in consulting environments. 
5451: Credit. Permission of the department. This course prepares students to take part in and lead projects effectively. The goal is to equip individuals across any career concentration rather than extend the expertise of project-management specialists. Students may not receive credit for both BUSI 536 and MBA 710. 
5452: Credit. Permission of the department. Examines developments in retailing and operations management principles applicable to these developments. Topics: consumer behavior, demand forecasting, logistics and distribution, store execution, international retailing, internet-based retailing, performance assessment, and impact on financial performance. Students may not receive credit for both BUSI 537 and MBA 708. 
5453: Credit. This course explores the link between sustainability and the operations function of a firm. The course focuses on the following activities: product and process design; manufacturing; transportation; logistics and distribution; closed-loop/after-sales operations such as recycling, remanufacturing, and reuse; supply chain management. 
5454: Credit. Permission of the department. Students apply principles and tools of operations management to explore improvement opportunities in the design, delivery, and management of the health care value chain. The course examines the health care operation from the perspective of operations metrics such as cost, quality, time (access), and variety/customization. 
5455: Credit. This course enables students to develop their expertise in managing negotiations. It integrates existing theory and research with personal experiences and ideas. Using hands-on exercises, readings, and lively discussions, students build and hone their ability to understand, adapt to, and evaluate the personal, social, and situational dynamics of negotiations. 
5456:Permission of the instructor. The course is dedicated to teaching the core skills for success in consulting and business in general: teamwork, analysis, and presentations. Honors version available 
5457: Credit. Examines the design, management, and leadership of teams in organizational settings. Focus is on the interpersonal processes and structural characteristics that influence the effectiveness of teams, individual behavior in face-to-face interactions, and the dynamics of interpersonal relationships. 
5458:Review of conceptual models and empirical research in consumer behavior. Topics include decision processes, social and cultural influences, information processing, and ethical issues. 
5459:The course concentrates on the fuzzy front end of the innovation process, focusing on tools and techniques to uncover consumer insights (needs). The design thinking process is emphasized as part of a semester-long team project. Other topics explored include creativity, intellectual property basics, prototyping, and Innovation 2.0. 
5460:The objective of this course is to understand and practice the strategic decision-making process in a dynamic competitive environment. The course builds on the foundations of marketing, and is based on lectures, cases, and computer simulations. 
5461:Marketing analytics is a systematic approach to harnessing these data to drive effective marketing decision making. We will learn to analyze historical data, market research data, and competitive information for making strategic marketing decisions. This course will be extensively based on case analysis and hands-on exercises. 
5462: Credit. Permission of the department. Required in spring semester for senior B.S.B.A.s who are admitted to the Kenan-Flagler Master of Accounting Program. Provides students with an initial understanding of the basic framework of the United States income tax system as it applies to businesses. 
5463:A survey of investment principles and practices. Emphasis is given to the problems of security analysis and portfolio management with special attention to the investment problems of the individual investor. Honors version available 
5464:Through lectures, case studies, and guest speakers, this course will cover all aspects of mergers and acquisitions from strategy to post-merger integration with an emphasis on valuation. Related activities such as hostile takeovers, private equity deals, and international acquisitions will also be discussed. Honors version available 
5465:Permission of the department. Year-long course. A live, student-managed investment fund with real dollars and fiduciary responsibility to the UNC Foundation. Emphasis is on the decisions that must be made by and/or for the ultimate investor and the analytic tools and empirical evidence that can help inform such decisions. Honors version available 
5466:Skill development in constructing financial models for analyzing problems with decisions faced by financial professionals. Analyzing historical performance, forecasting free cash flows, estimating discount rates, determining terminal value, identifying other sources of value, and interpreting results in a dynamic setting. 
5467:An overview of residential and commercial real estate. This survey course examines 1) buying a house and constructing a portfolio of single-family rental houses, 2) commercial real estate product types, 3) amortization, cash flows, capital expenditures, cap rates, debt and equity, hurdle rates and taxes, 4) investment analysis, 5) acquisition, development, operation, and disposition, 6) real estate and contract law, and 7) the partnership negotiation process. 
5468: Credit. Introduces and broadens the concept of personal finance and increases understanding of the process of accumulating and protecting personal wealth. Students learn to identify and analyze risk and return relationships, understand investment alternatives and how strategies develop as life situations mature, and gain understanding of retirement planning and effectively transferring wealth. 
5469: Credit. Permission of the instructor and confirmed offer of investment banking analyst internship or full-time job. This course prepares students for investment banking positions and internships. The focus of the class is on financial modeling, general knowledge of banking, and what it takes to succeed in the industry. Honors version available 
5470: Credit. Introduction to derivative securities instruments (options and futures) and applications in investments and corporate finance. Honors version available 
5471: Credit. The course covers traditional bonds and term structure concepts as well as fixed income derivatives and interest rate modeling. Honors version available 
5472:Completion of requisite core course(s) and permission of the instructor required. Selected topics in business administration presented in seminar format with students engaged in individual and team study under the supervision of a member of the faculty. Honors version available Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
5473: Credit. Completion of BUSI 409 recommended. An abundance of evidence suggests that the standard economic paradigm, "rational agents in an efficient market," does not adequately describe behavior in financial markets. This course will survey the evidence and use psychology to guide alternative theories of financial markets. Honors version available 
5474: Credit. Permission of the instructor. This course explores, at a very advanced level, all stages of the management of a real estate private equity fund: from capital formation, deal sourcing, due diligence, monitoring and adding value, and exiting of the fund's real estate holdings. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 6 total completions. 
5475:Permission of the department. This course provides students with a format for reflection while performing a professional internship that enhances their ability to achieve career objectives. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
5476: Credit. Permission of the instructor. Open to seniors only. Exposes students to the benefits, opportunities, and risks of incorporating alternative investments into managed institutional investment portfolios, including pension funds, endowments, and foundations. 
5477: Credit. Permission of the instructor. Open to seniors only. Develops methods for applied analysis of financial and operational risk. 
5478: Credit. This course will focus on the different ways to finance real property, and how different financing techniques impact the feasibility and investment benefits for equity investors. Honors version available 
5479: Credit. This course focuses on decision making in the presence of strategic interaction. Students will apply game theory to yield insights into business decisions. Topics covered include pricing, entry, product market competition, first-mover advantage, capital budgeting, antitrust law, corporate governance, auctions, and mergers. 
5480: Credit. This course is designed to introduce undergraduate students to the financial and economic analysis of real estate development. The course will focus on both the physical and financial dimensions of the real estate development process. The course considers multiple asset classes, and students learn to complete financial analysis of real estate development projects. 
5481: Credit. Introduces students to the capital markets for financing real estate assets. Topics include an overview of real estate as an asset class in the US economy, risk and return in real estate markets, the economics of discount and capitalization rates, the market for mortgage-backed securities (with a peek into the role that these instruments played in the recent financial crisis), and the valuation/analysis of Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs). Honors version available 
5482:Issues in operating overseas, including analyses of differences in country settings, legal and economic systems, and governmental policies affecting foreign operations. Studies trade theory, country groupings, and financial issues; managing operations in foreign lands; exporting. 
5483:Poverty is part of life for most of the world's population, with half living on less than two dollars a day. Course focuses on understanding this from a business school perspective. Looks at institutional failures that contribute to persistent poverty and the multiple roles managers can play in reducing poverty. 
5484:Examination of the problems involved in marketing products and services across national boundaries. Problem issues include culture, ideology, economics, technical standards, and currency movements. 
5485: Credit. Develops the foundation for financial decisions in a global economic environment. Extends the analytical concepts and tools learned in introductory investment and corporate finance courses to multicountry/multicurrency settings. Covers three major areas: the economics of exchange rates, international money and capital markets, and international corporate finance. 
5486: Credit. The course ranges from developing the creative mindset, ideation, development/manufacturing, marketing, selling, and managing. The course places heavy emphasis on doing and collaborating rather than listening passively: 1) dream: design process, 2) think: feasibility, 3) create: product development and manufacturing, and 4) tell: marketing. Restricted to GLOBE students. 
5487:The course ranges from developing the creative mindset, ideation, development/manufacturing, marketing, selling, and managing. The course places heavy emphasis on doing and collaborating rather than listening passively. 1) sell: sales; 2) run: management, finance and fundraising; and 3) launch Chapel Hill projects. Restricted to GLOBE students. 
5488:-3 Credits. Permission of the instructor. Service on the B.S.B.A. Symposium Core Committee to plan, execute, and evaluate the annual event. 
5489: Credit. Permission of the department. This course is by invitation only to students who previously served on the Undergraduate Business Symposium core committee. As senior advisors, students practice the leadership, organization, delegation, communication, and teamwork skills that they learn about in their other courses. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 3 total credits. 2 total completions. 
5490: Credit. This seminar style course develops a set of financial tools useful for trading primary and derivative securities with the goal of obtaining specific exposures in equity, fixed income, and commodity markets. The course examines methods for managing financial price risk of positions and how hedge funds use derivatives in practice. Honors version available Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 3 total credits. 2 total completions. 
5491:Permission of the department. Open to senior business administration majors with a minimum 3.5 grade point average in business courses. Students learn business research techniques and develop individual proposals for business research. Successful proposals may advance to honors thesis research and writing (BUSI 692H). Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
5492:Permission of the department. Open to senior business majors with a minimum 3.5 grade point average in business courses. Original investigation of a topic in business and preparation of a substantive research project under the direction of a faculty advisor. Written essay and oral presentation are required. 
5493:This seminar explores the concepts of schooling and education. Students will be challenged to reconsider their experiences and notions about pre-K through 12 schooling and to examine alternatives. 
5494:Course content will vary each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
5495:Provides a basic introduction to teaching and education. This course consists of a seminar based with field placements in different levels of schools. 
5496:Combines tutoring training with a field placement for tutoring in literacy and mathematics in grades kindergarten through three. 
5497:This course will provide students with knowledge to succeed at a research university. Students will consider what it means to have a liberal arts education and will learn about motivation, resiliency, and self-advocacy. Students will reflect on their current work toward academic success and their path to graduation. 
5498:Provides students an opportunity for exploration of career choices. 
5499:This course is designed for juniors and seniors who are preparing to embark on their post-Carolina job search. Students will learn how to develop the necessary tools and skills required to execute an effective job search. 
5500:Introduces students to theories and major research areas in human development and family studies while connecting this theory and research to careers in the helping professions. Students shadow a professional in a field of their choice. 
5501:This course provides students the opportunity for introductory exploration and discussion of selected topics in education. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 15 total credits. 5 total completions. 
5502:Combines tutoring training with a field placement for tutoring in literacy and mathematics in grades four through eight. 
5503:Focuses on the relationship among arts, creativity, and education. 
5504:Learn about the science of thriving and strengths-based strategies for young adult development. The course will bridge contemporary literature on positive psychology (e.g., hope, optimism), developmental assets, resiliency, cultural competence, engagement/connectedness, positive youth development, and more. In particular, learn and work on thriving as a student at UNC-Chapel Hill. 
5505:Explores factors that put children at risk for educational failure and interventions to increase resiliency. Service and learning experiences in educational and community agencies are integral to the course. 
5506:Course challenges students to think critically about educational issues as they transition to a research university. Through readings, videos and activities, students explore the value of higher education, the development of intelligence, and the role of habit and happiness in college success. Students also conduct and present original qualitative research. 
5507:A three-credit seminar on leadership styles, philosophies, and issues related to leadership. Each class will overlap these concepts (topical or theory/practice, service, and self-awareness.) 
5508:This is a three-credit course with a focus on delving deeper into issues relevant to leadership and education. This course is open to seniors, juniors, and sophomores with student organization experience and an interest in an advanced exploration of leadership. 
5509:The course is intended to provide an introduction to leadership theory, a forum for reflection upon personal strengths and contributions to leadership, and an opportunity to explore the nature of working in teams and groups. 
5510:This course revolves around and centers on the Relational Leadership Model which defines leadership as the relational and ethical process of people together attempting to accomplish positive change. 
5511:Students study several facets of learning in the modern world, and investigate what scholarship in cognitive psychology, educational psychology, and the learning sciences can do to help us maximize that learning. 
5512:Peer Tutoring is an APPLES service-learning course that provides undergraduates the opportunity to serve fellow students through tutoring. Tutors must have an overall GPA of 3.0 or higher. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
5513:This course provides students the opportunity for intensive exploration and discussion of selected topics in education. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics. 
5514:Students have 30 hours of service-learning with individuals with autism at community partner sites. Class discussions introduce students to diverse topics related to autism spectrum disorder. This is an APPLES course. 
5515:This course examines the field of child development as it contributes to the teaching and learning of children in early childhood and elementary educational settings, ages birth to eight. 
5516:This seminar serves as an introduction to the field of child development and early childhood education and special education. Students learn about the primary professional disciplines and agencies serving young children and their families. Current policy, recommended practices, and research innovations are reviewed. 
5517:This course examines issues of diversity among and across families, in order to better prepare students for human service fields in a variety of settings such as clinics, schools, advocacy, and other organizations. 
5518:Restricted to majors. Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Provides students with knowledge of program models and curricula/intervention strategies for working with infants and toddlers with and without disabilities. Information is provided regarding identification and assessment strategies for infants, toddlers, and two-year-olds. Program models for working with families are emphasized. 
5519:An introductory examination of human development and family research methods designed to provide an understanding of scientific inquiry, methodology, measurement, test construction, scaling, and statistical terms and techniques. 
5520:This course is an exploration of the research and theory about programs that promote youth development and prevent youth problems in the central contexts where youth function (i.e., home, school, outside of school activities, sports, peer networks, etc.). Career options (e.g., social work, law enforcement, teaching, and community outreach work) will also be explored in real life work settings. 
5521:Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. This course covers the theoretical and developmental aspects of language and literacy processes and practices. The course will cover reading, writing, speaking, listening and viewing practices, birth to age 12. 
5522:Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. The focus of this course is children's development in mathematical and scientific ways of knowing and the use of technology to support this development. 
5523:Provides an understanding of the community contexts of schools and an experience working in community group. This is the first semester of two-semester course. 
5524:Provides prospective teachers with an understanding of the community contexts of the schools. Second semester of a two-semester course. 
5525:A reflective examination of beliefs and attitudes associated with 1) the historical, philosophical, sociological, political, and economic forces affecting education and schooling in the United States; 2) the structure and function of the school system; and 3) current issues and trends in American schooling and education. 
5526:Introduction to teaching. Course covers foundations and philosophies of education, current issues, and trends in public schooling. 
5527:Offered concurrently with EDUC 466. Restricted to students admitted to the middle grades teacher education program. Initiates students into the teaching profession. The course stresses what it is like to be a teacher, with concurrent emphasis on the life of the student and the study of schools. 
5528:Offered concurrently with EDUC 465. Restricted to students admitted to the middle grades teacher education program. Helps students learn how to plan and develop skills to meet the unique and diverse needs of young adolescents as they prepare to teach. 
5529:Helps students develop a variety of basic teaching skills used by classroom teachers. This course will be conducted primarily as a laboratory course. 
5530:Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Students gain familiarity with the operations and complexity of teaching. Students observe instruction, assist in teaching, learn about the curriculum and specific resources, interact with school personnel, work with students, and apply skills learned in previous courses. Prepares students for internship or student teaching. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics. 
5531:Permission of the instructor. Provides readings and research under the direction of a faculty member. May be repeated for a maximum of six credit hours. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
5532:Course asks students to consider what it means to participate in schools as educational leaders. Students consider how to collaborate effectively with school colleagues, advocate for children and families, participate in the politics of schools and education, and examine what it means to be change agents in classrooms and schools. 
5533:Students learn about current educational emphases and controversies as well as what the research and scholarship in the fields of education and cognition can contribute to our understanding of these phenomena. 
5534:Introduces students to a research-based, highly practical understanding of leadership frames/styles prominent in educational/nonprofit organizations. Emphasizes continued student engagement with various leadership models and principles. 
5535:Through extensive case study and conversations with policy actors, students will learn the stages model of policy making and understand conflicting values that play out in policy decisions. 
5536:This course was developed to confront and address questions of global cultural competence and self-critique. Culturally competent leaders work to understand their own biases and patterns of discrimination. 
5537:Learn strengths-oriented approaches in education practice, research, and policy. The course takes up contemporary literature on positive psychology, developmental assets, resiliency, cultural competence, school readiness, school engagement/ connectedness, and positive youth development. 
5538:This course examines the political, cultural, and historical dimensions of the Mexican American and Chicana/o experience in education. A critical exploration of K-12 schools, higher education, and various social initiatives intended to address inequities in education for Mexican Americans and Chicanas/os will also be a focus of this class. 
5539:Course explores the politics and policies involved in literacy curriculum and pedagogy. Critical policy analysis is used as a tool to explore and understand the political issues involved in teaching young children to read and write. 
5540:Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. This methods block is a field based, integrated collection of science, literacy, and math courses designed to prepare pre-service teachers for planning and implementing instruction in elementary schools. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics. 
5541:Restricted to students admitted to the elementary education program or the child development and family studies program. Explores integration of the arts in the curriculum. 
5542:Offers an overview of the special education field and its relevance to the classroom teacher. The course is based on an interdisciplinary perspective toward serving exceptional learners and collaboratively coordinating services. Course content emphasizes inclusive programming and the teacher's role in facilitating students' unique learning needs. 
5543:Course is restricted to majors. Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. The senior seminar is inquiry based and directly connects student teachers with classroom practices. Throughout the semester student teachers develop and implement inquiry projects. 
5544:Course is restricted to majors. Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Course focuses on the language, reading, and writing development of children birth through third grade. Promotes early literacy learning for all children with and without disabilities, including those at risk. 
5545:Focus on youth in schools. This course considers the history and present lives of youth, primarily as teenagers/adolescents. It seeks recognition and understanding of the uniqueness of their lives. 
5546:Course focuses on schools and educational issues as they relate to practices and policies. Fulfills central ideas of the minor in education in consideration of the history and present conditions of schooling in a democratic society. 
5547:Course is restricted to majors. Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Students study the teaching and learning of mathematics for young children, birth to third grade. Emphasis is placed on content for math, as well as materials, techniques, and teaching aids. 
5548:This course examines experiential education in a variety of settings. Students will explore the role experiential education currently plays and suggest new roles in a chosen field of study. 
5549:Learn about the scientific basis of thinking and learning and what this implies for guiding children and adults, for personal development and for building environments that help people learn and grow successfully in a rapidly changing technological world. 
5550:Among the topics examined are ethical implications of democratic schooling for a democratic society, educators as moral agents, and education as an institution with incumbent responsibilities. Students explore the explicit and implied ethics of education and schooling as they relate to policy makers, educators, and citizens concerned about social justice. 
5551:Explore and analyze how education has been represented in popular culture. "Education" refers to teachers, students, principals, other educators, and the everyday processes of schooling, and "popular culture" refers to school films (fictional films), school documentaries, television shows, music videos and song lyrics, animation, and other media forms. 
5552:Explore history of American schools to inform students' understandings of contemporary schools. Examine policies, issues, and controversies through a chronological examination of schools and society. 
5553:Characteristics of effective teachers, classroom management, instructional methods, instructional planning and presentation, monitoring and assessing student behavior and learning, differentiating instruction, yearly plans and pacing guides. 
5554:This course examines the field of human development as it contributes to the teaching and learning of all children. The emphasis is on understanding the nature of development in educational contexts and the implications of research and theory on human development for teacher practice and the creation of supportive learning environments for all children. 
5555:Course examines how education can help create more fair and just societies, ultimately contributing to high performing educational systems internationally. Students explore multiple perspectives on social justice; examine efforts at local, state, national, and global levels; and learn to articulate efforts in classrooms and schools with wider community initiatives. 
5556:Methods of assessment, multiple measures, monitoring student performance to inform and improve instruction, understanding students with special needs with individual education plans, test scores, and other information in student files. 
5557:Leadership in classroom and school with families, standards of practice, advocating equity, supporting teaching profession, school organization, school finance, legal issue/education strategies for environments that promote learning, issues and trends. 
5558:NCTM Standards, Standard Course of Study, developing student understanding of mathematics, problem-solving skills, and professional commitment. 
5559:Mathematical tasks for learners in grades six through 12 and instructional methods necessary to maintain a task at a high cognitive level. 
5560:Examining patterns of practice and assessment, modifying and improving planned units, pacing instruction, reconsidering individual differences and differentiation. 
5561:Nature of science, national science standards, teaching science as inquiry, safety in the science classroom, materials management. 
5562:Developing and redesigning science instruction to engage students actively, with emphasis on classroom management for energetic curricula, modifying tasks and projects, assessment strategies, and utilization of resources. 
5563:A practitioner's look at instruction in middle and high school science classrooms using many current pedagogical approaches of instruction: constructivism, models of inquiry, reflective practice, and conceptual change theory. 
5564:Designed to support lateral entry candidates, solving the most urgent problems in the classroom. Includes frequent online communication, individualized attention to immediate problems and combines supervision, coaching, and mentoring. 
5565:Course designed to help lateral entry candidates by improving their classroom management skills, specifically those related to student behavior. 
5566:Course designed to support the lateral entry candidates through individualized feedback about concerns, focusing on strategies for increasing student learning using content area literacy strategies. 
5567:Methods of teaching a second language, how people learn foreign languages, planning instruction, getting students to communicate, using and adapting foreign language textbooks, and developing lessons. 
5568:Students examine instruction as effective mechanism for classroom management, choosing and redesigning tasks and projects to engage students in active learning. Assessment of student understanding investigated as necessary for development of effective instruction. 
5569:Students will consider national standards frameworks as organizing principles for instructional strategies. They will develop skills by use of culturally authentic materials, performance-based assessment, and units and lessons promoting successful language learning. 
5570:Restricted to students admitted to the middle grades education program. Focuses on the goals and methods of teaching language arts in the middle grades, including planning for student diversity and unit planning. 
5571:Restricted to students admitted to the middle grades education program. Focuses on the goals and methods of teaching social studies in the middle grades. 
5572:Restricted to students admitted to the middle grades education program. Focuses on methods for teaching science in the middle grades and includes emphasis on the individual needs of students, reading and writing in the content area, and unit planning. 
5573:Restricted to students admitted to the middle grades education program. Focuses on methods for teaching mathematics in the middle grades and includes emphasis on the individual needs of students, reading and writing in the content area, and unit planning. 
5574:Explores literature in the contexts of interdisciplinary elementary and middle school curricula and the interests and needs of children and young adolescents. Topics include reader-response theory, censorship, Internet resources, school resources, and methods. 
5575: 
5576:This course provides an integrative learning experience which prepares HDFS students to apply academic learning acquired in previous coursework to real-life situations likely to be encountered in the internship experience and throughout their careers in the field of human services. Course materials and learning experiences are intended to help students obtain an internship. 
5577:Internships are full-time, authentic, field-based experiences in an educational or professional setting. Preservice teachers are responsible for planning lessons, delivering instruction, assessing students, managing the classroom, and demonstrating their teaching effectiveness. All internships are devoted exclusively to the student's functioning in a professional capacity. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 2 total completions. 
5578:Permission of the instructor for nonmajors. Surveys giftedness and mental disabilities, emotional and behavioral disorders, learning disabilities, speech, hearing, vision, and physical impairments. Emphasizes the role of professionals, families, and the community in supporting the whole child. 
5579:Permission of the program director. Workshops designed around education topics primarily for licensed K-12 teachers. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 5 total completions. 
5580:Introduction to the teaching profession including a focused, program-long emphasis on innovative, authentic, and resource-informed teaching. Includes engagement with 21st-century learning skills. 
5581:Course explores the symbiotic relationship between schools, families, and communities through a historical and sociocultural lens. Students participate in a community-based field experience. 
5582:Course focuses on ELA pedagogy, grades kindergarten through second grade. Course emphasizes best practices in foundations of reading and writing, cross-disciplinary concepts, and meaningful inquiry-based learning experiences. 
5583:Provides students with an introduction to the history, philosophy, and attributes of schools and curriculum specifically designed for young adolescents with attention to their developmental characteristics and needs as learners. 
5584:Enhances foreign and second language educators' understanding of English grammar, expands their skills in linguistic analysis, and helps them develop a more pedagogically sound approach to the teaching of English grammar. 
5585:Provides future English as a second language teachers with advanced concepts in linguistics and comparative linguistics. Topics such as phonology and morphology will be covered. 
5586:Provides students with an introduction to the history, philosophy, and attributes of schools and curriculum specifically designed for young adolescents with attention to their developmental characteristics and needs as learners. 
5587:Permission of the instructor. Explores issues of culture and language associated with teaching English as a second language. 
5588:This course emphasizes the interconnection of a classroom/school and society, the role of cultural beliefs in education, and mathematics instruction. 
5589:This course emphasizes the interconnection of classroom/school and society, the role of cultural beliefs in education, and science instruction. 
5590:This course emphasizes the interconnection of classroom/school and society, the role of cultural beliefs in education, and social studies instruction. 
5591:This course emphasizes the interconnection of classroom/school and society, the role of cultural beliefs in education, and English language arts instruction. 
5592:This course provides an advanced introduction to key concepts, issues, and service delivery approaches pertaining to the educational needs of students with high incidence disabilities. 
5593:Restricted to honors candidates in the School of Education. Required for graduation with honors in education. Integration of critical analysis of selected educational themes, introduction to methods of educational research, and intensive work in skills of reading critically and writing. 
5594:Provides students the opportunity to observe and become involved with all aspects of teaching and schools within their content area. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 2 total completions. 
5595:Required of all candidates for graduation with honors in education. Preparation of an honors thesis under the direction of a member of the School of Education faculty and an oral examination on the thesis. 
5596:Student completes a major project in education. Course involves discussion about the changing and contested goals of education, how student projects are implicated in these complexities, and how the projects may be articulated in terms of policy change. 
5597:Topics and trends in sustainable and smart cities. Role of information in the design of network resources and impact on urban design, development, and urban living will be explored. 
5598:Special topics course; content will vary each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
5599:Introduction to and application of the processes that can be used in seeking information, evaluating the quality of the information retrieved, and synthesizing the information into a useful form. 
5600:Tools and concepts for information literacy. Includes software use and maintenance, computer applications, and networked information systems. 
5601:Examines the evolution of information science; information representation, organization and management; search and retrieval; human information seeking and interaction; organizational behavior and communication; policy, ethics and scholarly communication. 
5602:Introduction to foundational core concepts and core techniques in information organization, information retrieval, and data mining. 
5603:Introduces key areas and concepts in information science, to include task modeling, information-seeking behavior, search behavior, human-computer interaction, usability, user interfaces, social media, and social media analysis. 
5604:Design, implementation, and evaluation of interfaces for computer systems. User-based techniques, usability issues, and human factors. 
5605:Analysis of organizational problems and how information systems can be designed to solve those problems. Application of database and interface design principles to the implementation of information systems.Students may not receive credit for both INLS 382 and INLS 582. 
5606:Overview of ethical reasoning, followed by examination of ethical issues relevant to information science, including access to information and technology, societal impacts of technology, information privacy, surveillance and security, intellectual property, and professional ethics. 
5607:Basic concepts in the way that information, people, and technology interact to influence organizational effectiveness. Principles of problem solving, teamwork, leadership, and organizational change/innovation. 
5608:Permission of the school. Supervised observation and practice in information science. The internship typically takes place in an information agency or an information technology company. Faculty-led seminars and a paper enhance the experience. Pass/Fail only. 
5609:Study by an individual student on a special topic under the direction of a specific faculty member. A prospectus/plan for the work is required in advance of registration. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
5610:Design, implementation, and evaluation of interfaces for computer systems. User-based techniques, usability issues, and human factors. 
5611:Prepares students to be conversant with information technologies that underlie digital collections in order to evaluate the work of developers, delegate tasks, write requests for proposals, and establish policies and procedures. Teaches students how to think about information technology systems and recognize and manage interdependencies between parts of the systems. 
5612:Exploration of an introductory-level special topic not otherwise covered in the curriculum. Previous offerings of these courses do not predict their future availability; new courses may replace these. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
5613:The behavioral and cognitive activities of those who interact with information, with emphasis on the role of information mediators. How information needs are recognized and resolved; use and dissemination of information. 
5614:Analysis, use, and evaluation of information and reference systems, services, and tools for both printed and electronic delivery. Provides a foundation in electronic information search techniques, question negotiation, interviewing, and instruction. 
5615:Examines the history and context of LIS training programs. Pedagogy, teaching skills, methods of evaluation are addressed. Students may tailor learning projects to their own interests. 
5616:Through individual presentations, group exercises, and performance-centered feedback, this course seeks to improve students' ability to communicate their ideas clearly and present themselves positively in a professional setting. 
5617:Study of information retrieval and question answering techniques, including document classification, retrieval and evaluation techniques, handling of large data collections, and the use of feedback. 
5618:Study of applications of natural language processing techniques and the representations and processes needed to support them. Topics include interfaces, text retrieval, machine translation, speech processing, and text generation. 
5619:Identification, provision, and evaluation of resources to meet primary needs of clientele in different institutional environments. 
5620:Examines concepts of health, health conditions, policy, and information collections and services from social and cultural perspectives. Analysis and design for provision and access to consumer health information services. 
5621:Introduction to the problems and methods of organizing information, including information structures, knowledge schemata, data structures, terminological control, index language functions, and implications for searching. 
5622:Design and implementation of basic database systems. Semantic modeling, relational database theory, including normalization, indexing, and query construction, SQL. 
5623:Explores relationships between new information and communication technologies and organizational efforts to define, identify, control, manage, and preserve records. Considers the importance of organizational, institutional and technological factors in determining appropriate recordkeeping strategies. 
5624:A survey of print and nonprint library materials particularly suited to the needs of adolescents. 
5625:This course encourages students to explore the array of technologies available to children and adolescents, the issues surrounding the use of technology, the role of care givers, and potential impacts on development. 
5626:In this course we investigate the special challenges of providing information services to marginalized populations in an increasingly digital world. 
5627:Students will implement a personal digital LifeTime Library. Topics include creation of a personal digital library, organization of the material, creation of descriptive metadata, management, and sharing of the collection. 
5628:An introduction to information visualization through reading current literature and studying exemplars. The course reviews information visualization techniques, provides a framework for identifying the need for information visualization, and emphasizes interactive electronic visualizations that use freely available tools. Students will construct several visualizations. No programming skills are required. 
5629:The history of the origin and development of the book in all its formats: clay tablets to electronic. Coverage includes scientific and other scholarly publications, religious works, popular literature, periodicals, and newspapers. 
5630:The history of cultural institutions related to information from earliest times to the present day. Includes specific institutions, trends in service and facilities, and individuals important in the development of these institutions. 
5631:This course will explore cultural institutions--libraries, museums, parks, zoological and botanical gardens, reconstructions and other settings--as lifelong educational environments. 
5632:Survey of the principles, techniques, and issues in the acquisition, management, and administration of records, manuscripts, archives, and other cultural and documentary resources in paper, electronic, and other media formats. 
5633:An overview of storytelling, its historical development, and the presentation and administration of storytelling programs. The class focuses on performance skills merged with theoretical issues. 
5634:Introduction to programming and computational concepts. Students will learn to write programs using constructs such as iteration, flow control, variables, functions, and error handling. No programming experience required. 
5635:Students will learn about hardware, software, principles, and methods for capturing and curating digital data that have been stored on removable media (i.e., hard drives, floppy disks, USB memory sticks). 
5636:Aspects of data integrity, privacy, and security from several perspectives: legal issues, technical tools and methods, social and ethical concerns, and standards. 
5637: Credit. Introduction to Internet history, architecture, and applications. Introduces design principles for creating usable and accessible Web sites. Develops technical skills and understanding of standards. 
5638: Credit. An introduction to techniques and technologies for the development of mobile Web sites and their applications. 
5639:Distributed and client/server-based computing. Includes operating system basics, security concerns, and issues and trends in network administration. 
5640:Network protocols and protocol stacks. Included are discussions of protocol classes, packet filtering, address filtering, network management, and hardware such as protocol analyzers, repeaters, routers, and bridges. 
5641:An introduction to research methods used in information and library science, exploring the design, interpretation, analysis, and application of published research. 
5642:Introduction to the systems approach to the design and development of information systems. Methods and tools for the analysis and modeling of system functionality (e.g., structured analysis) and data represented in the system (e.g., object-oriented analysis) are studied. Undergraduates are encouraged to take INLS 382 instead of this course. Students may not receive credit for both INLS 582 and INLS 382. 
5643:An overview of ethical reasoning, followed by discussion of issues most salient to information professionals, e.g., intellectual property, privacy, access/censorship, effects of computerization, and ethical codes of conduct. 
5644:Introduction to management principles and practices for information professionals working in all types of organizations. Topics include planning, budgeting, organizational theory, staffing, leadership, organizational change and evaluation, and decision making. 
5645: Credit. Strategies and skills needed to effectively manage projects, integrating project management theory with best practices in different organizational perspectives. Individual and team assignments include readings and case studies. 
5646:This course takes an in-depth look at experimental information retrieval systems that focus on different search tasks and are evaluated in community-wide evaluation forums such as TREC and INEX. 
5647:This course will allow the student to develop a general understanding of knowledge discovery and gain a specific understanding of text mining. Students will become familiar with both the theoretical and practical aspects of text mining and develop a proficiency with data modeling text. 
5648:Similar programming background needed. Understand the Web as a platform for information organizing systems. Learn how the Web has been designed to be a service platform, data publishing platform, and application platform. 
5649:This course focuses on issues in personal information management research and practice, including information organization, human cognition and memory, task continuity across devices, preservation, and the role of technology in personal information management. 
5650:Intermediate-level design and implementation of database systems, building on topics studied in INLS 523. Additional topics include MySQL, indexing, XML, and nontext databases. 
5651:Students will develop policies for managing digital repositories and persistent archives. The rules will be implemented in the integrated Rule-Oriented Data System (iRODS), which organizes and distributes data into shareable collections. 
5652:This course introduces analytical techniques to deal with very large data sets. Students will become familiar with predictive modeling, clustering, data mining, and paradigms such as map resource. 
5653: Credit. Information is being generated at an exponential scale in many areas, from astronomy to social networking and e-marketing. Processes for handling these data are data intensive, require heavy read/write workloads, and do not need the stringent ACID properties of relational databases. Several specific systems will be studied as examples. 
5654:This project-based course provides an overview of visual analytics. Material includes foundational concepts and theories, seminal and recent research in the field, and hands-on experience with commonly used technologies. Programming experience strongly recommended. 
5655: Credit. An introduction to the management of audio, film, and video archives with an emphasis on the history of recording, best practices for preservation and access, and copyright. Through selected readings, lecture, class discussion, assignment, and hands-on demonstration, students will gain an understanding of the history of recording, format identification, storage and handling, philosophy of media preservation, and copyright. 
5656:Explores the evolution, implications, and complications of social media in multiple spheres of life including sociality, community, politics, power and inequality, education, and information from theoretical and empirical perspectives. 
5657:Study of design and implementation of applications using both client and server side configuration and programming. Example topics include PHP, ruby on Rails, and Javascript. 
5658:Exploration of a special topic not otherwise covered in the curriculum, at an intermediate level. Previous offering of this course does not predict future availability; new courses may replace these. Topic varies by instructor. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
5659:Senior standing and permission of the instructor. Restricted to information science majors. An introduction to research methods used in information science. Includes the writing of a research proposal. 
5660:Senior standing and permission of the instructor. Restricted to information science majors Students in the SILS undergraduate honors program engage in independent research and write an honors thesis reporting the research under the supervision of a faculty member. 
5661:Study by an individual student on a special topic under the direction of a specific faculty member. Six credit maximum for master's students. Graduate faculty. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
5662:Senior standing required. Information science major or minor. Contemporary topics of information science, information systems, information technology, information design, and information management. Assessment of future impact of new developments. 
5663:Majors only. This course emphasizes a lifespan approach to theories and perspectives on individual growth and development. Content focuses on physical, cognitive, and socioemotional development, and risk factors from birth to death. 
5664:Majors only. This course introduces the discipline, profession, and practice of nursing through a study of history, values, culture, legal issues, and education. Critical thinking central to nursing practice is introduced. 
5665:Majors only. This course involves the nursing application of nutritional concepts to the care of individuals, families, groups, and populations across the life span. 
5666:Majors only. The course introduces fundamentals of nursing practice and integrates the nursing process with emphasis on the application of evidenced-based practice. The role of the nurse as a member of the healthcare team is emphasized. The lab setting provides practical application of principles and skills required for clinical practice. 
5667:Majors only. This course is concerned with alterations involved in disruptions of normal physiology as well as pathophysiological principles underlying therapeutic interventions and outcomes. 
5668:Majors only. Using the science of pharmacology and pharmacologic principles underlying therapeutic interventions, this course focuses on an introduction to nursing responsibilities regarding pharmacologic therapy across the lifespan. 
5669:Majors only. This is the first of two adult health courses in which students apply critical thinking skills to nursing care of adults with major health problems. 
5670:Majors only. This course addresses concepts and methods of comprehensive health assessment of children, adults, and elders. Emphasis will be on data collection as a basis for initiation of caring and decision making in nursing practice. 
5671:Admission to the RN-BSN option or permission of the instructor. This course expands the student's previous knowledge base of the skills and principles of historical, psychological, and physical assessment and identifies these data as the basis for nursing care. 
5672:Pre- or permission of the instructor for students lacking the prerequisite. Students are introduced to key concepts of evidence-based nursing practice, including the research process, protection of human subjects, and retrieval and appraisal of evidence to maintain a scientifically sound practice. 
5673:Majors only. This course introduces components of the research process with application to the theory and practice of nursing. The course provides the foundation for master's-level nursing research course. 
5674:Majors only. Students will examine health care organizations from a systems perspective and develop leadership skills necessary in professional practice. 
5675:Majors only. This course explores essential competencies in genetics and genomics for registered nurses. The learner gains knowledge about family assessment and the impact of genomic issues on individuals and families. 
5676:Majors only. This course emphasizes professional development through exploration of a variety of roles and practice environments. Students analyze personal and professional goals and values to develop a framework for nursing practice. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 2 total credits. 1 total completions. 
5677:Majors only. Students apply public health concepts to community practice to improve health and reduce disparities across the lifespan, emphasizing interventions using partnership strategies at individual/family, organizational, and policy levels. 
5678:Majors only. Nursing care of infants, children, and their families is explored. Knowledge from a variety of disciplines is applied through the nursing process to the direct care of infants and children. 
5679:Majors only. Using theories of psychosocial development, psychopathology, therapeutic communication, and psychotherapy, this course requires students to examine the range and complexities of human emotional suffering and methods of effective intervention. 
5680:Majors only. The course focuses on application of caring and critical thinking skills in providing evidence-based nursing care to childbearing families. 
5681:Certification as Nurse Aide I and II also required as pre- or corequisite. Majors only. This course provides the student an opportunity to participate in a work-study experience in participating health care agencies. Students participate in a reflective experience that integrates classroom and experiential learning. 
5682:Majors only. Certification as a Nurse Aide I and Nurse Aide II are recommended. Practice in health care settings is the course focus. Students participate in a reflective experience that provides the context to integrate classroom and experiential learning into an evolving professional identity. 
5683:Majors only. Certifications as a Nurse Aide I and Nurse Aide II are recommended. Practice in global health care settings is the course focus. Students participate in a reflective experience that provides the context to integrate classroom and experiential learning into an evolving professional identity. 
5684:Majors only. This course emphasizes analysis of clinical problems that affect the nursing care of selected populations. Students also apply the nursing process, therapeutic communication skills, and teaching-learning principles in clinical situations. 
5685:Majors only. Selected concepts, theories, and models are synthesized, appraised, and applied as a basis for making judgments and decisions in nursing practice. 
5686:Majors only. Prepares R.N. students for population-focused practice in community health nursing. Analyses and applications of selected theories; health promotion/protection and disease prevention strategies are emphasized. 
5687:Majors only. The focus of this course is the development of knowledge and experience related to research or service learning and its application to the practice of nursing and health care. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit.  
5688:Seniors only or permission of the instructor. This course will assist students in preparation for the NCLEX-RN examination through a strategic and systematic individualized plan of study that utilizes the ATI program and other relevant resources. Limited enrollment. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 3 total credits. 3 total completions. 
5689:Majors only. Concepts and principles underlying biomedical and biopsychosocial approaches to health care delivery are analyzed to determine their impact on health and to provide a framework for integrating both approaches to care. 
5690:Majors only. The context of professional nursing practice will be analyzed from a social, economic, and policy perspective. Analysis will include projections for the future of the profession. 
5691:Majors only. This course explores organizational leadership and management practices and theories. Current social, economic, legal, ethical, and policy issues affecting practice, education, and the profession of nursing are examined. 
5692:Majors only. This senior-level course focuses on applying critical thinking, clinical decision making, and evidence-based nursing practice to complex health problems of adults. Unique health needs of older adults are addressed. 
5693:This course provides service-learning opportunities to apply nursing practice within the context of interprofessional care for vulnerable populations by participating with Student Health Action Coalition (SHAC) activities. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 0 total credits. 8 total completions. 
5694:Majors only or permission of the instructor. A faculty-led experiential learning opportunity focusing on development and knowledge related to research, health care systems, or service learning and its application to nursing and health care. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit.  
5695:Application required. An interprofessional, service-learning approach to studying maternity care. Students will receive professional doula training and volunteer as birth doulas within the Volunteer Doula Service Program at North Carolina Women's Hospital. 
5696:NURS 647. Contemporary Issues in the Role of Advanced Practice Nursing. 3 Credits. Graduate students only. This course examines the evolution, current issues, and roles in advanced practice nursing within the context of contemporary healthcare delivery. 
5697:Students anticipating graduate study are introduced to scientific inquiry and principles of evidence-based practice, including theoretical perspectives related to inquiry; ethics; identification of research problems, development of research questions, and appropriate design; data interpretation with emphasis on statistical analysis; and rigorous appraisal of research reports. 
5698:Admission to the Hillman Scholars Program in Nursing Innovation is required. This seminar will cultivate personal and professional skills essential for students' development and socialization as nurse innovators, leaders, researchers, and scholars. Content is iterative and progressive in depth and scope. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit.  
5699:Pilot test for new courses in the nursing program. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
5700:Students from a variety of health sciences-related disciplines gain an understanding of issues in working with dying and bereaved individuals of all ages and their families. 
5701:Examination and discussion of major ethical issues arising in the professional practice of nursing in the context of systematic consideration of the nature of ethical choice. 
5702:Permission of the program director. Majors only. Preparation of a two-semester honors project under the direction of department advisors. 
5703:Permission of the program director. Majors only. Preparation of a two-semester honors project under the direction of department advisors. 
5704:This course exposes students to approaches and strategies that optimize communication in today's dynamic health care field. It is ideal for those considering a career in the health sciences. Students will engage in multifaceted activities and discussions with experienced practitioners and apply course concepts to real world scenarios. 
5705:Advanced course for undergraduates who wish to pursue a topic or research study in health behavior. To be arranged with faculty. An approved work plan is required. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 6 total completions. 
5706:Students work in teams to produce, shoot, script, and report environmental, science, and medical stories for broadcast on "Carolina Week", the award-winning, student-produced television newscast. 
5707:Students work in teams to conceive, produce, and script mini-documenties on environmental and science topics for broadcast on North Carolina Public Television. 
5708:This course focuses on social and behavioral science theories, research and interventions aimed at promoting health of individuals, groups, communities and populations. Two lecture hours per week. Enrollment is restricted to junior, senior, graduate, and certificate students in programs or majors within the School of Public Health. 
5709:Required preparation, knowledge of basic descriptive statistics. Majors only. Major topics include elementary probability theory, probability distributions, estimation, tests of hypotheses, paired and independent samples t-tests, ANOVA, linear and logistic regression, correlation and chi-squared procedures. SAS, a statistical software package, is used in the course. 
5710:This course will explore issues, theories, and experiences relevant to social action, coalition building, and social change. The content of this course will be examined by confronting the possibilities and limitations of service and service-learning as it relates to APPLES Alternative Spring Break experiences. 
5711:In this course students learn about and experience the process of awarding grants to local agencies. In addition to participating in the grant-making process, students learn about the nonprofit sector and the philosophy and practice of philanthropy through readings, class exercises, and guest speakers. 
5712:This course considers the causes and consequences of traumatic injury and dilemmas in injury research and prevention. This one-credit course consists of 10 class sessions of 75 minutes each over the first five weeks of the semester. 
5713:This one-credit course considers the causes and consequences of intentional injury and dilemmas in injury research and prevention. The course meets once a week for 75 minutes starting the sixth week of the semester. Students may enroll concurrently in EPID 627. 
5714:This one-credit course considers the causes and consequences of unintentional injury and dilemmas in injury research and prevention. The course meets once a week for 75 minutes starting the sixth week of the semester. 
5715:Prepare students to work as environmental and science journalists. The course emphasizes writing skills in all delivery formats and interpreting environmental, science, and medical information for consumers. 
5716:Special topics in health behavior. An experimental course designed for faculty who wish to offer a new course. Content will vary from semester to semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 6 total credits. 6 total completions. 
5717:Content varies by semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
5718:This course offers participants a multidisciplinary perspective on HIV/AIDS -- its etiology, immunology, epidemiology, and impact on individuals and society. How HIV/AIDS is framed by a society determines not only how affected persons are treated but also the degree to which the rights of the individual are upheld. 
5719:This course will integrate community service into the campus-wide AIDS course. Students will work as volunteer interns three to five hours per week for 10 weeks during the semester with Triangle-area community service organizations. 
5720:This online, asynchronous class presents a series of discrete tools designed to teach skills to health professionals for using technology and data management/analysis. Online course. 
5721:Permission of the instructor. Intensive study of a special problem in public health practice. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
5722: Credits. Provides opportunities for students to get to know each other through an exchange and discussion. Students exchange points of view with globally experienced faculty at UNC-Chapel Hill. 
5723:Explores issues, problems, and controversies in global health through an interdisciplinary perspective; examines the complex tapestry of social, economic, political, and environmental factors that affect global health; analyzes global health disparities through a social justice and human rights lens; and exposes students to opportunities in global health work and research. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit.  
5724:This course is intended for students who know no Spanish or so little that they feel the need to start over. Students with more than two semesters of college Spanish are not eligible. The course covers the curriculum of first-semester Spanish taught within a health context, with a focus on speaking. 
5725:This intermediate course is the equivalent of the third semester of college Spanish. Students will hone their listening and speaking skills in class primarily through role-playing activities and class discussion. Activities center on an original film set in a health clinic in rural North Carolina. 
5726:Required preparation, third semester Spanish or equivalent. This advanced course reviews the grammar of the third and fourth semester of college Spanish. Students hone their listening and speaking skills through role-playing activities and class discussion. Activities center on an original film set in a Latino-run health clinic. 
5727:This course explores contemporary issues, problems, and controversies in global health through an interdisciplinary perspective. It examines the tapestry of social, economic, political, and environmental factors that affect global health. 
5728:This course, Introduction to Clinical Research, is designed to give the undergraduate student an overview of clinical research methods. During the semester we will carry actual research projects. 
5729:A comprehensive introduction to public health concepts and practice through an examination of the philosophy, purpose, history, organization, functions, tools, activities, and results of public health practice at the national, state, and community levels. Online course. 
5730:Permission of the instructor. Sections will focus on specific topics of current interest to health workers. Fliers describing the section offering will be distributed prior to registration each semester. Lecture hours per week dependent upon credit. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 12 total credits. 4 total completions. 
5731:Independent Study to address goals and objects of student. Prior faculty agreement is required. Registration for an independent study course must be completed after the learning contract has been approved and no later than the last day of "late registration" (the end of the first week of classes in F/S). 
5732:This introductory course will describe the history of public health, the key terms and concepts, and how the core areas of public health are integrated to promote health at a population level. The class will engage the students in active learning through the use of media, innovative technology, discussion groups, and field experiences. 
5733:School of Public Health majors only. This introductory course describes the history of public health, key terms, concepts, and the integration of core areas of public health to promote health at a population level. The class engages students in active learning through the use of media, innovative technology, discussion groups, and field experiences. 
5734:This introductory course serves to develop a foundation in the breadth and depth of public health, locally and globally. Students will develop an understanding of the basic concepts of the public health disciplines and how they are used to promote health at a population level. 
5735:Topic will vary with the instructor and semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
5736: Special topics course. Contents will vary each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
5737: The goal of this course is to teach students basic skills in grammar, punctuation, and spelling and help prepare them for the school's spelling and grammar exam. Students must earn a score of 70 or above on the exam to receive their degree. 
5738: An introduction to the various facets of communication from the objective world of news media to the persuasive worlds of advertising, public relations, and social media. Developing skills and strengthening knowledge concerning media and communication industries, their content, and their effects on society as well as on individuals. 
5739: Survey of visual communication tools, techniques, and theories, and how they may be used in all areas of the mass media, present and future. Not open to students who have already taken MEJO 180, 182, or 187. 
5740: Restricted to declared journalism majors and minors. Introduces students to the tools and skills needed to engage in quality news-oriented storytelling with audio, video, and multimedia. Students will learn to deliver news stories using multiple platforms, taking advantage of the strengths of each. Previously offered as MEJO 221. 
5741: In this course students will produce a weekly sports highlights, analysis, and commentary program for distribution via cable television. Students fill all editorial, field production, and studio production positions. Previously offered as MEJO 429. 
5742: Survey of the economics, philosophy, and history of both fields with emphasis on research, foundations, design, execution, and assessment of strategic communication efforts. Provides an understanding of both disciplines, including historical developments, issues and controversies, best practices, career opportunities, and components of successful advertising and public relations campaigns. 
5743: Explore what constitutes ethical practices, what interferes with ethical practices, and what emerging ethical issues may challenge the newest generation of professional communicators. Cases involve print, broadcast, and Internet news media; photojournalism; graphic design; public relations; and advertising. 
5744: A laboratory course that teaches journalistic skills essential to writing across platforms. Practice in using news gathering tools, such as sourcing and interviewing techniques; writing stories, including leads, organization, quotations, and data; editing for grammar, punctuation, brevity, style, and accuracy; and critical thinking about news values and audiences. 
5745: Study and practice in copyediting, headline writing, and caption writing for print, digital, and social media. 
5746: An introductory course in photojournalistic technique and content gathering. Students photograph, edit, and publish assignments, including general news events, sports, feature and portrait assignments, and a picture story. 
5747: Principles and practices of design, typography, graphics, and production for visual communication for print and electronic media. Computer graphics and pagination. 
5748: Entry-level course in multimedia storytelling that includes modules on theory; the profession; design; content gathering; and editing, programming, publishing, and usability. 
5749: Analysis of the interrelationships between United States mass media and the society that they serve. 
5750: A historical examination of the changing role of the media professional and forms of media and communication as they have developed in relation to particular social, political, economic, and technological conditions. 
5751: An overview of political communication issues and an examination of political campaigns for students who intend to practice communication in the public arena and for those interested in political processes. 
5752: A comprehensive overview of the relationship between sports and the media. Athletes, coaches, and professionals share what goes into producing the sports journalism that we read, listen to, and watch. 
5753: Students learn how to conceive, research, report, and produce audio stories for broadcast on radio and/or streaming on the Web. Students also learn interviewing and reporting techniques that will prepare them for higher-level courses. 
5754: Exercises in news gathering, interviewing, and writing news regardless of the delivery platform. 
5755: Service-learning course provides hands-on practice in developing multiplatform communication tools (print, digital, and social media) used by public relations practitioners. Previously offered as MEJO 232. 
5756: Introduction to the use of video as a means of communicating with a variety of an organization's publics, both internal and external. Significant emphasis on building professional skills including teamwork, project management, client management, and creative problem solving. 
5757: Students learn basic principles of graphic design vocabulary and work with related software. By the end of the course, students should be able to accomplish basic design tasks, understand how software applications work together, and be able to use software as a comfortable part of the creative design process. 
5758: Focuses on speech and press freedoms under the First Amendment. Topics include prior restraint, libel, privacy, protection of anonymous sources, free press-fair trial, federal regulation of electronic and new media, freedom of information, intellectual property, and international issues. 
5759: Focuses on speech and related freedoms under the First Amendment. Topics include commercial speech, corporate speech, libel, privacy, regulated commercial communications, federal regulation of electronic and new media, freedom of information, intellectual property, and international issues. 
5760: A chronological survey of the African American press in the United States since 1827. Emphasis is on key people and issues during critical areas in the African American experience. 
5761: Students develop an understanding of social, legal, political, and other issues related to the use of the Internet. Offered online. 
5762: Instruction and practice in writing feature articles for newspapers and magazines. Previously offered as MEJO 256. 
5763: Practice in writing commentary for all forms of mass communication, from journalism to public relations, no matter the delivery format. Previously offered as MEJO 258. 
5764: Application of findings from social science research; social responsibility of the copywriter and advertiser; preparation of advertisements for the mass media; research in copy testing. Previously offered as MEJO 271. 
5765: The media-planning function in advertising for both buyers and sellers of media; the relationships among media, messages, and audiences; computer analysis. Previously offered as MEJO 272. 
5766: Examines the range of promotional techniques being used in the modern sports industry. Topics include sponsorships, advertising, merchandising, and the effects of commercialization. 
5767: Permission of the instructor. Examination of organizations involved in the sports communication field, including publishing, team and league media relations, college sports information offices, broadcasting, and advertising. 
5768: Critical understanding and application of quantitative and qualitative methods used in the strategic planning and evaluation of advertising and public relations campaigns. Course previously offered as MEJO 279. 
5769: Courses on various skills in journalism-mass communication with subjects and instructors varying each semester. This course satisfies a skills- or craft-course requirement. Descriptions for each section available on the school's Web site under Course Details. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
5770: Restricted to declared journalism majors and minors. Students work with area media and advertising and public relations firms and meet weekly for consultation and evaluation by the faculty advisor. Must be taken Pass/Fail only. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit. 3 total credits. 3 total completions. 
5771: Permission of the instructor. This course covers writing, reporting, and producing television news stories and programs, with emphasis on basic as well as innovative broadcast story forms. 
5772: An introduction to media management, generally, and the supervision and motivation of employees, specifically. The course also delves into policy and legal issues impacting modern media operations. It explores the special skills associated with management of media properties in the context of constant change. 
5773: Designed to help students develop presentation skills and use voices effectively as professional broadcast journalists. 
5774: Students work under faculty guidance to produce "Carolina Connection," a weekly 30-minute radio news program, and are responsible for all production tasks: producing, reporting, anchoring, and editing. 
5775: This course provides a comprehensive assessment and understanding of the role of public relations professionals throughout government and the nonprofit sector as well. The course examines the unique requirements placed on communicators who are simultaneously responsible for representing their respective organizations while keeping the public informed. 
5776: Explains legal issues raised by Internet communication and guides students in thinking critically about how those issues can be resolved. Reviews how courts, other branches of government, the private sector, and legal scholars have responded to the Internet. Topics may include digital copyright, net neutrality, privacy, and Internet censorship abroad. 
5777: An examination of racial stereotypes and minority portrayals in United States culture and communication. Emphasis is on the portrayal of Native Americans, African Americans, Hispanics, and Asian Americans in the mass media. 
5778: The media play a critical role in the construction and contestation of ideas about gender, class, and race. Using a range of methods, students will analyze media messages past and present to understand how gender, race, and class influence media production and consumption. 
5779: An introductory course to the study of United States Latina/os and the media. It analyzes the media portrayal of Latina/os in United States mainstream media. The course also examines media that cater to Latina/os and explores the way in which Latina/o audiences use the multiple media offerings available to them. 
5780: Mass communication as a social process, incorporating literature from journalism, social psychology, sociology, political science, and history. To acquaint students with factors in message construction, dissemination, and reception by audiences. 
5781: Covers theories explaining the workings of global and local communication systems, the transnational flow of news, and opportunities and challenges that social media and other new platforms pose to the production and distribution of news. It also familiarizes students with the media communication systems of key countries. 
5782: The study of media system operations in a particular country including how news and information are disseminated and used by audiences. Includes a trip to the country as part of the course. 
5783: An examination of the development of freedom of expression in the United States within the context of the nation's history. 
5784: For advanced undergraduates through Ph.D. students. Practical and theoretical approaches to understanding, designing, building, and using virtual communities, including studies of network capital, social capital, and social production. 
5785: Writing and reporting important topics in in-depth feature articles. Discussion and utilization of writing and reporting techniques in order to complete articles for publication or other dissemination. In-depth instruction and critiques of student work. 
5786: Researching and writing sports stories, including game coverage, magazine features, and opinion columns. Students complete reporting and writing exercises inside and outside of the classroom. 
5787: Interpretive-contextual journalism focused on the trends, issues, and politics that influence democracy in North Carolina, the American South, and the nation. Through readings and the practice of analytical journalism, the course explores government policy making, election campaigns, social and economic trends, ethics, and citizen-leader relationships. 
5788: Comprehensive study of the community press, including policies, procedures, and issues surrounding the production of smaller newspapers within the context of the community in its social and civic setting. 
5789: Students work under faculty guidance to develop and test an idea for a start-up news product. Students will create a prototype, test it on a target market, and compile a business feasibility report for the product. The course emphasizes collaboration among students with a variety of skills and experiences. 
5790: This course covers theory and research underlying effective health communication campaigns. Students will learn about both the development and evaluation of real-world health campaigns. 
5791: Rigorous, in-depth instruction and critiques of student advertising writing. 
5792: Designed to provide the larger business context for students anticipating careers in advertising, public relations, and other media industries, the course teaches the vocabulary and basic concepts of marketing as it will be practiced. 
5793: Permission of the instructor. Ethical dilemmas and decisions in the commercialization and coverage of sports, including the influence of television, pressure to change traditions and standards for monetary reasons, and negative influences on athletes. 
5794: This course will introduce you to the nontraditional, future vision required to be successful in advertising, marketing, and public relations and the more personal, individualized technologies that will grab people's attention in the future. 
5795: Principles and practices of retail advertising in all media, with emphasis on selling, writing, and layout of retail advertising for the print media. 
5796: Permission of the instructor. This course helps students learn to make better business decisions by teaching contemporary analytical tools to solve brand and advertising problems. 
5797: Permission of the instructor. Detailed study of page layout and graphics techniques for all forms of news media. 
5798: Study and application of graphic design and information-gathering techniques to creating charts, maps, and diagrams. 
5799: Detailed study and application of graphic design techniques in magazines, newspapers, advertising, and corporate communication. 
5800: Web programming, graphic design, and storytelling for the Web. Students will use HTML5 CSS3, JavaScript, and other Web publishing languages while learning how to design, storyboard, and script an interactive storytelling project. Students will collect and incorporate photos, text, video, graphics, and database information into interactive multimedia presentations. Previously offered as MEJO 586. 
5801: The Carolina Photojournalism Workshop has a dual mission: to provide an immersive, real-world learning experience for students, and to create and publish exceptional multimedia content on the culture of North Carolina that can be a resource for people in our state and the world. Previously offered as MEJO 587. 
5802: Students expand their personal photographic vision and professional portfolio by honing their knowledge and skills of studio and location lighting, propping, and styling. Students learn studio and location portraiture and photo illustration and create a photo essay or portrait series. Previously offered as MEJO 181. 
5803: Small classes on various aspects of journalism-mass communication with subjects and instructors varying each semester. Descriptions for each section available on the school's Web site under Course Details. Honors version available Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
5804: Permission of the instructor. Students work under faculty guidance to produce "Carolina Week," a television news program, and are responsible for all production tasks such as producing, reporting, anchoring, directing, and others. Previously offered as MEJO 422. 
5805: Permission of the instructor. Students participate in a collaborative learning environment to hone skills learned in earlier courses and help less-experienced students acclimate to the broadcast news experience within the school. By invitation only. Previously offered as MEJO 423. 
5806: Helps students think as public relations professionals who deal with the demanding, dynamic environment of corporate, government, and nonprofit public relations. Students examine real-world situations and strategies, discussing factors that affect how public relations is practiced in organizations, including identifying stakeholder groups, developing strategies, embracing diversity, and recognizing ethical issues. Previously offered as MEJO 431. 
5807: Provides an assessment and understanding of crises, examining the role public relations professionals play in helping organizations use mass communication theories and best practices. Includes media training. Introduces students to areas of crisis research, allowing them to complete the Federal Emergency Management Agency's National Incident Management System certification. Previously offered as MEJO 433. 
5808: Permission of the instructor. Coverage of Wall Street and the economy, including stocks, bonds, and economic indicators. Reporting on the Federal Reserve, labor, consumer sector, manufacturing and inflation, and certain industries. Previously offered as MEJO 451. 
5809: Methods and tactics of covering businesses for mass communication. Why and how companies operate and how to write stories about corporate news from public records and other sources. Previously offered as MEJO 452. 
5810: Role of media in United States society and effects on public perceptions of business. Relationship of business press and corporate America. Current issues in business journalism. Previously offered as MEJO 450. 
5811: The course will focus on the changing economics affecting 21st-century news organizations and the economic drivers of other content providers such as music companies, the film industry, online aggregators, and commerce sites for lessons that can be applied across industry segments. 
5812: During a time of fast-paced technological innovation, this course examines the critical strategic choices facing media executives. Students will observe and research a media company that is making the transition, as well as produce a case study on that effort. 
5813: Rigorous, in-depth instruction and critiques of students' news and feature assignments done with different reporting methodologies: interviewing, official records, direct and participant observation, and survey research (the Carolina Poll). Previously offered as MEJO 453. 
5814: Concentration on the editing and display of complex news and features stories and other print media content with a significant emphasis on newspaper design and graphics. Previously offered as MEJO 457. 
5815: Prepare students to work as environmental and science journalists. The course emphasizes writing skills in all delivery formats and interpreting environmental, science, and medical information for consumers. 
5816: Students work in teams to produce, shoot, script, and report environmental, science, and medical stories for broadcast on "Carolina Week", the award-winning, student-produced television newscast. 
5817: Students work in teams to conceive, produce, and script mini-documenties on environmental and science topics for broadcast on North Carolina Public Television. 
5818: Required preparation, a second reporting or writing course. Focuses on developing strategies to research and write about medical issues, specifically selecting topics, finding and evaluating sources, and information gathering. Students produce a range of stories, from short consumer pieces to in-depth articles. 
5819: An interdisciplinary course for students interested in environmental issues or journalism to produce stories about environmental issues that matter to North Carolinians. Students learn to identify credible sources, manage substantial amounts of information, and find story focus as they report on technical and often controversial subjects in a variety of media. 
5820: An introduction to basic statistics and numerical and mathematical literacy, as well as a look at professional data-driven journalism projects. Students who successfully complete this course will be able to acquire, organize, analyze, and present data to a general news audience. Previously offered as MEJO 460. 
5821: This course provide students with finished advertising for their portfolios through visual theory instruction, creative exercises, and strategy application. Previously offered as MEJO 472. 
5822: What have you done to brand yourself? Students will use YouTube, Twitter, and Facebook in a calculated plan with other new-media marketing tools to land that first job. Previously offered as MEJO 474. 
5823: Advanced course in photojournalism content gathering, history, ethics and storytelling. Students shoot advanced newspaper and magazine assignments and create short multimedia stories combining photography, audio, and video. Previously offered as MEJO 480. 
5824: Theory and practice of multimedia design with an emphasis on usability, design theory, and evaluative methodologies, including focus groups, survey research, eye-track testing, and search engine optimization. 
5825: Permission of the instructor. Students learn how to gather audio and video content, editing and storytelling techniques, and how to publish these media onto a variety of multimedia platforms. 
5826: Permission of the instructor. Advanced course in multimedia programming languages that includes designing and building dynamic projects. 
5827: Permission of the instructor. Students work on a semester-long documentary multimedia project in an international location that includes photo and video journalists, audio recordists, designers, infographics artists, and programmers. Open by application to students who have completed an advanced course in visual or electronic communication. 
5828: Permission of the instructor. The use of 3D design and animation to create visual explanations. 
5829: This class will teach students how to think about mobile media products. Students will learn to solve problems, design mobile user experiences, write the hybrid code to make it work, and then deploy, test, and make it better. The class will be a mix of design and product development theories. Previously offered as MEJO 660. 
5830: Permission of the instructor. Detailed study and application of motion-graphic techniques that utilize the combination of words, photos, graphics, video, sound, and voice-overs to convey stories for news and entertainment. Students learn Adobe After Effects software and the art of storytelling to enable them to conceptualize and execute digital animations. Previously offered as MEJO 486. 
5831: Permission of the instructor. An individual readings and problems course to be directed by a faculty member in whose field of interest the subject matter lies. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 6 total credits. 2 total completions. 
5832: Graduate standing. Readings, discussion, and projects fostering excellence in teaching journalism-mass communication in the high school, from philosophy and practice to professional skills. 
5833: Graduate standing. Application of First Amendment speech and press freedoms to secondary school media, including libel, privacy, access to information, journalistic privilege, prior restraint, advertising and broadcast regulations, and ethical practices. 
5834: Graduate standing. High school journalism teachers and advisors learn to teach the skills journalists need to communicate. Emphasis on writing and thinking skills necessary to convert information into clear messages. 
5835: Graduate standing. High school journalism teachers and advisors learn to teach the skills journalists need to produce publications. Designed for persons with no background in design. Degree-seeking students may not use both MEJO 182 and 605 to complete degree requirements. 
5836: Permission of the department. Students will work together to find, produce, and market stories that would attract the attention of professional media partners throughout the state and region, and at times, the nation. This hands-on course mimics the professional journalist's work environment more than any other class in the school. 
5837: In this capstone experience, students apply concepts and skills from earlier classes to develop a campaign plan for a client organization. Activities include conducting background and audience research; developing realistic objectives, strategies, tactics, and evaluation plans; producing a portfolio of supporting materials; and pitching the campaign to the client. Previously offered as MEJO 434. 
5838: The course combines a development workshop with a professional industry project, giving students unprecedented access to working creatives, industry trendsetters, and decision makers. In Workroom students will think, write, and execute their creative ideas. 
5839: The course combines a development workshop with a professional industry project, giving you unprecedented access to working creatives, industry trendsetters and decision makers. In Workroom you will not simply think and write about your creative ideas, instead, this class is completely focused on execution. 
5840: Instruction and practice in planning, writing, and editing copy for magazines. Previously offered as MEJO 456. 
5841: This course provides the practical knowledge and insights required to establish digital advertising and marketing objectives and strategies, properly select the earned and paid media platforms, and monitor and measure the results of those efforts. Previously offered as MEJO 470. 
5842: Social marketing is the application of marketing concepts and practices to bring about behavior change for a social good. This course is designed as a service-learning course and fulfills the experiential education requirement. 
5843: Planning and executing advertising campaigns; types and methods of advertising research; the economic function of advertising in society. Previously offered as MEJO 473. 
5844: Permission of the instructor. Students study the documentary tradition and produce stories within the social documentary genre of photojournalism. Students choose a relevant social issue and create a multimedia Web site featuring long-form documentary storytelling. Previously offered as MEJO 481. 
5845: Permission of the instructor. Detailed study of page layout and graphics techniques in magazines. Previously offered as MEJO 483. 
5846: Courses on special topics in advertising with subjects and instructors varying each semester. Repeat rules: May be repeated for credit; may be repeated in the same term for different topics; 9 total credits. 3 total completions. 
5847: Permission of the instructor. Required of all students reading for honors in journalism. 
5848: Permission of the instructor. Required of all students reading for honors in journalism. 
